<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" dir="ltr">
<head>
<title>1 Introduction: the transforming modern world and public diplomacy</title>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/mathml.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<article id="ch01" epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<h1 class="chap" epub:type="title" id="_15044-4038_ch001"><a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch001"><span id="p1" aria-label="1" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>1</a> <a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch001">Introduction</a></h1>
<h1 epub:type="title" class="h1_subtitle"><a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch001">The transforming modern world and public diplomacy</a></h1>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">The modern world is undergoing drastic changes. This fact is reflected both in the speeches of political leaders from various countries of the world and in the academic literature. However, the question of what exactly is being transformed remains debatable. Most researchers proceed from the assumption that the transformation of the modern world is due to changes in interstate relations after the end of the Cold War [see, e.g., Kissinger, 2014]. Indeed, interstate relations are changing, being an important structural element of the political organization of the world. But this is not the only element that is changing. Political transformation in the modern world covers at least three levels of the political organization of the world: (1) the Westphalian system [see Keohane &amp; Nye, 1971]; (2) the system of interstate relations; and (3) the political systems of various countries, many of which have undergone changes at the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries. The transformation of each level intensifies the changes taking place in the other two. As a result, the phenomenon of the “perfect storm” is formed [Lebedeva, 2016]. Changes in the political organization of the world mean that an increasing number of actors are involved in public diplomacy, and the tool of public diplomacy is becoming more important for states.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Simultaneously with changes in the political organization of the world, the role of social and humanitarian resources and, consequently, their means of influence, increases [Lebedeva, 2018]. This is due to the importance of the human factor and human capital in the modern world. It is the human being who is now at the center of economic, social, and political development. Many researchers, including Russian ones, pay attention to this aspect [see, e.g., Gromoglasova, 2018; Zonova, 2004].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In addition, the strengthening of the role of social and humanitarian resources is associated with the development of communication and information technologies, which make it possible for billions of people to search for and obtain information, as well as communicate. As a result, in the <span id="p2" aria-label="2" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>practical sphere, much attention has been paid to the problems of health, tourism, the fight against poverty, etc. Accordingly, in the scientific field, the number of studies in the humanitarian and social fields is increasing, and concepts that are directly related to the social and humanitarian spheres are appearing (in particular, the concept of “soft power” by Nye [2002]). Of course, military-political and <span id="p2_6"/>political-economic resources do not reduce their “weight” in world politics. In this case, we are talking about the fact that social and humanitarian means of influence become no less effective than other means. Moreover, social and humanitarian means “connect” to other means of influence, including military ones, often reinforcing them. An example of this is <span id="p2_2"/>hybrid wars, when various means of influencing the enemy are used, as well as propaganda, <span id="p2_1"/>fake news, etc.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Public diplomacy develops in the context of changes in world politics and under the influence of these changes. Because public diplomacy is a part of a social and humanitarian resource, its role in the modern world as a means of influence increases dramatically. At the same time, along with public diplomacy, other tools related to social and humanitarian impact are widely used throughout the world, including propaganda, strategic communication, and the formation of <span id="p2_4"/>national branding. All states use the entire arsenal of tools for influence. In this case, the focus of analysis is precisely public diplomacy. At the same time, it is essential to highlight the characteristic features of public diplomacy that distinguish it from other tools.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Russia is currently active on the world stage. The analysis of Russian public diplomacy will allow us to better understand how various state and non-state structures are involved in shaping the world’s perceptions by Russian <span id="p2_7"/>public diplomacy and its implementation.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Finally, there is another reason for the interest in Russia and, in particular, Russian public diplomacy. The world is becoming more and more complex, and non-Western states and citizens of the non-Western world are actively involved in it. This explains the increased interest that is now shown in non-Western approaches, concepts, and theories [see, e.g., Acharya, 2016].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In recent years, articles on Russian public diplomacy have appeared, written mainly by foreign scholars. In this case, the focus of attention is on Russian public diplomacy – how it is built and studied within Russia. The book emphasizes public diplomacy in general and particularly in Russia. The public diplomacy toolkit is largely universal. However, how it is applied, which technologies are primarily used, and how public diplomacy is combined with other means of influence are specific to each state.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The concept of “public diplomacy” came to Russia, as well as to many other countries, from the English-language literature. Therefore, before considering Russian public diplomacy, it is important to analyze what is generally understood by public diplomacy.</p>
</section>
</article>
</body>
</html>