<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" dir="ltr">
<head>
<title>2 Public diplomacy and its development in the 21st century</title>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/feTable.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
<link href="../styles/mathml.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<article id="ch02" epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<h1 class="chap" epub:type="title" id="_15044-4038_ch002"><a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch002"><span id="p3" aria-label="3" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>2</a> <a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch002">Public diplomacy and the reasons for its development in the world in the 21st century</a></h1>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch002_001">Public diplomacy: definition and understanding</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">Public diplomacy, along with soft power issues, has become one of the most discussed topics in world politics and, in particular, in the theory of diplomacy. Both theoretical issues and the practice of using public diplomacy in various countries [see, e.g., <i>The New Public Diplomacy</i> … , 2005], including Russia [see, e.g., Simons, 2014], are studied. Public diplomacy is becoming an integral part of world politics, and its analysis makes it possible to better understand both world politics itself and the foreign policy of various countries. However, public diplomacy is understood in different ways. Russia is no exception in this regard.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The concept of public diplomacy,<a href="#_15044-4038_chp002_en001" id="R_15044-4038_chp002_en001" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>1</sup></a> which appeared in the United States in the middle of the 20th century at the <span id="p3_1"/>Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University thanks to E. Gullion, is defined as follows:</p>
<aside title="quote1" epub:type="pullquote" role="doc-pullquote" class="quotes">
<p class="text_noindent">Public diplomacy deals with the influence of public attitudes on the formation and execution of foreign policies … encompasses dimensions of foreign relations beyond traditional diplomacy, the cultivation by governments of public opinion in other countries; the interaction of private groups and interests in one country with those of another.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp002_en002" id="R_15044-4038_chp002_en002" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>2</sup></a></p>
</aside>
<p class="text_indent">A similar definition is given by the US Department of State: “Public diplomacy refers to government-sponsored programs intended to inform or influence public opinion in other countries; its chief instruments are publications, motion pictures, cultural exchanges, radio and television” [<i>Dictionary</i> … , 1987].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In turn, the book edited by Snow and Taylor describes public diplomacy as the impact of one state on the society of another (other) state [<i>Routledge Handbook of Public Diplomacy</i>, 2008]. A close definition is given by the Russian researcher A. V. Dolinskiy. He proposes to understand public <span id="p4" aria-label="4" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>diplomacy as a means by which the government of one country tries to influence the society of another so that it, in turn, affects its government [Dolinskiy, 2013a]. Thus, in fact, the definition of public diplomacy as the impact of the state on the societies of foreign countries has become widespread.</p>
<p class="text_indent">From the previous definitions it follows that, first, public diplomacy is an activity carried out or directed by the state, and second, the channels for implementing public diplomacy can be twofold: through officials (e.g., a representative of a state department to hold a press conference for foreign journalists) and through non-state actors (nongovernmental organizations [NGOs], universities, theaters, etc.) [Lebedeva, 2017b]. The main emphasis, however, is often placed on non-state actors.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Initially, US public diplomacy was focused on countering communist propaganda. In this regard, American scholars usually contrasted public diplomacy with the activities of the USSR in the international arena. In the 1990s, interest in public diplomacy declined significantly, since the end of the collapse of the USSR gave rise to the illusion of the end of any significant value contradictions in the world, which was most clearly reflected in Fukuyama’s article on the end of history [1989]. The beginning of the 21st century was marked by the revival of public diplomacy in the world. In many ways, the United States initiated this revival. There are several reasons for the new stage in the development of public diplomacy. First of all, the <span id="p4_4"/>terrorist attacks of 9/11 showed that the value contradictions in the world have not disappeared. The reaction of many people in the <span id="p4_1"/>Middle East to the attacks on 9/11 made clear that millions of people had a negative perception of US policy. Obviously, it was impossible to correct the negative image of the United States only by means of traditional diplomacy. To solve this problem, representatives of the American elite again turned to the means of public diplomacy. Therefore, having experienced a decline in the 1990s under the influence of the illusion of “the end of history”, public diplomacy was revived with renewed vigor after the tragedy of 9/11 [Melissen, 2005; Dolinskiy, 2011a].</p>
<p class="text_indent">At the same time, at the beginning of the 21st century, other reasons for turning to the tools of public diplomacy are directly due to the processes of transformation of the political organization of the world, especially the Westphalian system. Thus, the development of communication and information technologies has led to a sharp intensification of interaction between people in the world beyond their national borders. As a result, non-state actors entered the world arena en masse and joined public diplomacy as its subjects and objects.</p>
<p class="text_indent">In the 21st century, not only has the number of non-state actors in the world increased significantly [Gotz, 2011], but their interaction with states <span id="p5" aria-label="5" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>also increased. Social and <span id="p5_6"/>humanitarian resources are increasingly being used by states to influence foreign audiences. Finally, Nye’s concept of soft power, centered on the idea of attractiveness [1990], played its role in the revival of public diplomacy.</p>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch002_002">New <span id="p5_14"/>public diplomacy and propaganda</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">New realities of the 21st century – the development of comm<span id="p5_17"/>unication and information technologies; a sharp surge in the activity of non-state actors due to the opportunities that these technologies have opened up; blurred boundaries between internal and external information spaces, etc. – all led to the creation of a new public diplomacy, the name of which has been fixed in scientific research [see, e.g., <i>The New Public Diplomacy</i> … , 2005; Cull, 2009]. In addition, public diplomacy has become widespread outside the United States: it covers almost all countries of the world, including Russia.</p>
<p class="text_indent">New phenomena have also appeared in public diplomacy. If earlier public diplomacy was considered as a means of only the state, nowadays public diplomacy is becoming a means of influence of <span id="p5_8"/>international organizations and <span id="p5_18"/>unions. Melissen wrote in 2005 that public diplomacy is developing. And in the modern world, the European Union and the UN are successfully demonstrating the capabilities of <span id="p5_16"/>supranational public diplomacy in action [Melissen, 2005].</p>
<p class="text_indent">One more important point characterizes the modern new public diplomacy: it involves not just <span id="p5_4"/>influencing the society of another state, but also interacting with it, that is, through dialogue [Melissen, 2005]. An indication of dialogue as a distinctive feature of public diplomacy is also contained in the study by Russian authors Kornilov and Makarychev, who write, “soft power is not a unilateral tool to coerce others and in this respect it differs from hard power or propaganda” [2015, p. 239].</p>
<p class="text_indent">The manifestation of this dialogue is observed through the official and unofficial channels of the implementation of public diplomacy. It is no accident that <span id="p5_12"/>social networks have developed rapidly in the framework of public diplomacy. Of course, there are many examples of public diplomacy where such a dialogue is absent. But then the question arises about its effectiveness in modern conditions.</p>
<p class="text_indent">As an attribute of public diplomacy, it is also indicated that traditional diplomacy was characterized by the interaction between the <span id="p5_15"/>state and society (government to people, or G2P), while the new diplomacy was the interaction between people from different countries (people to people, or P2P) [Snow, 2010]. In addition, such a characteristic of new public diplomacy as the use of network interaction <span id="p5_10"/>openness is noted [Zaharna, 2007].</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p6" aria-label="6" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Due to the emergence of the concept of soft power, public diplomacy has become seen as a tool of soft power and in this sense has become a counter to propaganda [see, e.g., <i>The New Public Diplomacy</i> … , 2005]. However, propaganda, as well as public diplomacy, involves influencing the audience. Thus, Jowett and O’Donnel emphasize that propaganda and beliefs are used interchangeably. Propaganda, in the most neutral sense, means to disseminate or promote particular ideas. In Latin, it means “to propagate” or “to sow” [Jowett &amp; O’Donnel, 2012, p. 2].</p>
<p class="text_indent">As a result, it turns out that the definition of public diplomacy as given earlier does not contradict this definition of propaganda. From this, one can conclude that the emergence of the concept of public diplomacy, in fact, did not bring anything new. However, it did. As Melissen notes, diplomacy has nothing to do with propaganda [2005]. Indeed, in studies of diplomacy, it is rare to find references to propaganda, in contrast to journalistic articles on diplomacy. In the same study, Melissen writes, “public diplomacy is similar to propaganda in that it tries to persuade people what to think, but it is fundamentally different from it in the sense that public diplomacy also listens to what people have to say” [2005, p. 18]. These are important differences between propaganda and public diplomacy. At the same time, it seems that these are not the main differences. The key question is how to implement such an impact on the external auditors. And here another concept comes to aid – the concept of soft power by Nye [1990], which appeared much later than the concept of public diplomacy expressed by Gullion at the <span id="p6_5"/>Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy in the 1960s. It is no coincidence that the term “propaganda” is often used with negative connotations, and recently it has often been used in conjunction with the concept of “<span id="p6_4"/>fake news” [see, e.g., Tandoc, Zheng, &amp; Ling, 2017].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Thus, public diplomacy is an instrument of soft power, as described by Nye [2008]. However, first, the fact that Nye’s concept appears much later than the concept and definition of Gullion misleads many scholars, which sometimes gives rise to the identification of public diplomacy with propaganda. Second, in practical terms, states always use propaganda focused on hard power, as well as public diplomacy, which is based on soft power. That is why Nye introduced the concept of “<span id="p6_10"/>smart power”.</p>
<p class="text_indent">As a result, many authors now assume that public diplomacy is not the same as propaganda, since it means greater <span id="p6_8"/>openness [Zaharna, 2004] and does not involve disinformation. The technologies of public diplomacy primarily presuppose openness, dialogue <span id="p6_3"/>with foreign audiences, and the formation of attractiveness.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Propaganda does not mean focusing on attractiveness. Moreover, propaganda does not exclude the use of various options for manipulating people’s minds, which, in essence, is not allowed by soft power. This clearly shows <span id="p7" aria-label="7" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the difference between the neoliberal approach to international relations, in the framework of which Nye mainly works, and the realist approach, which implies fierce rivalry between states in the international arena on which propaganda is based.</p>
<p class="text_indent">There is no difference between propaganda and soft power in the realist approach. Perhaps the most striking difference between <span id="p6_9"/>realism and <span id="p7_2"/>neoliberalism in relation to soft power and propaganda approaches is demonstrated by Knight. She writes that Nye’s concept became very popular: both political leaders and representatives of academia pounced on her “like bees on honey”.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp002_en003" id="R_15044-4038_chp002_en003" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>3</sup></a> However, she further erroneously ascribes to Nye a realistic position. Knight argues that the basis of any force, whether it is “soft” or “hard”, are countries’ own interests, and this manifests itself, in her view, as a focus on realism. For this reason, the Knight asks the question, is not Nye’s soft power a form of manifestation of domination and realization of the state’s own interests? Knight describes two situations, assuming that both belong to the realist approach. The first situation presupposes a desire to realize only one’s own interests. The second situation involves taking into account the partner’s interests. In principle, the second situation is incorporated in Nye’s concept, although it is not clearly defined by him. Hence, the concept of “soft power” introduced by Nye is interpreted by various researchers and politicians very broadly, often in a way that contradicts what Nye meant.</p>
<p class="text_indent">At the same time, it cannot be said that propaganda is an ineffective means of influencing the <span id="p7_4"/>public opinion of foreign countries, as well as realistically oriented behavior in general. In some situations, especially when it is necessary to quickly achieve the desired result from the opposite side, propaganda and even methods such as <span id="p7_3"/>pressure and <span id="p7_1"/>blackmail can be effective means. Otherwise, propaganda would not be applied at all. Another thing is that it is unlikely that propaganda influence can last long. There is a principle that is formulated in a well-known expression regarding the fact that one can come to power on bayonets, but it is difficult to hold onto it. The correlation of the characteristics of soft power and propaganda can be schematically represented as in <a href="#_15044-4038_ch002_tab_001" id="R_15044-4038_ch002_tab_001">Table 2.1</a> [Lebedeva, 2017a] (more parameters, of course, can be added).</p>
<p class="text_indent">It should be emphasized that the proposed dichotomy of public diplomacy as a tool of soft power, on the one hand, and propaganda, on the other, is not absolute. Moreover, Nye, contrasting soft power with hard power, nevertheless speaks of a continuum of means of influence. He illustrates his point graphically, where hard power is on the left and soft power is on the right. Both types of power connect a single line [Nye, 2004a]. Obviously, the boundaries of the two types of “power” are “blurred”. In practice, soft power in the form of public diplomacy and hard power in the form of propaganda are often used simultaneously in relation to the same subject. However, the question arises as to the advantages and limitations of such simultaneous use of soft power in the form of public diplomacy and propaganda.</p>
<figure class="table"><table><caption class="table_caption"><a id="_15044-4038_ch002_tab_001" href="#R_15044-4038_ch002_tab_001"><span class="table_num">Table 2.1</span> <span id="p8" aria-label="8" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Correlations between characteristics of propaganda and public diplomacy</a></caption>
<thead>
<tr>
<th><i>Propaganda</i></th>
<th><i>Public diplomacy, understood as an instrument of soft power</i></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>1	Allows imposition<br/>(coercion), as well as various types of <span id="p8_3"/>incentives (rewards)</td>
<td>1	Does not permit imposition or stimulation (the opposite side has to make its choice)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2	Used in the framework of <span id="p8_9"/>realism (attention only to one’s own interests)</td>
<td>2	Used in the framework of <span id="p8_7"/>neoliberalism (including attention to the interests of another)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3	Most likely will not work in the long run</td>
<td>3	Focuses on <span id="p8_4"/>long-term interaction with a partner</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4	Uses manipulative strategies</td>
<td>4	Avoids using manipulative strategies</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5	Focused on the <span id="p8_6"/>monologue; perceives the opposite side as an object</td>
<td>5	Focused on the dialogue; perceives the opposite side as a subject</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6	Building <span id="p8_10"/>trust is not a focus of attention</td>
<td>6	Involves the creation of a trusting relationship</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</figure>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch002_003">Public diplomacy, sharp power, and strategic communication</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">Blurring the boundaries between soft power and hard power gives rise to attempts to create new terms such as, in particular, sharp power [Walker &amp; Ludwig, 2017]. According to Walker and Ludwig, for example, the use of cultural and educational programs by <span id="p8_1"/>authoritarian regimes cannot be considered either soft power or hard power, since these actions are not aimed at creating attractiveness but at undermining the foundations of democratic countries. A similar rebuke aimed at changing the political regime is essentially put forward by the opposite side, which accuses <span id="p8_12"/>Western countries of color revolutions. It is noteworthy that Nye, who entered into the discussion regarding sharp power, also noted that, in principle, it is rather difficult to determine the boundaries between soft power and sharp power. However, “if we use the term ‘sharp power’ as a shorthand for information warfare, the contrast with soft power becomes obvious. Sharp power is a type of hard power” [Nye, 2018].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In recent years, the concept of “strategic communication” has gained popularity in the academic literature. Public diplomacy has often become <span id="p9" aria-label="9" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>synonymous with strategic communication. Nye, considering the connection between soft power and public diplomacy, writes about the importance of strategic communication [2008]. At the same time, he agrees with the understanding of strategic communication proposed by Leonard. Leonard drew attention to the fact that many organizations and agencies dealing with politics, trade, culture, and so on interact with the external auditor based on their institutional and corporate interests. However, the external audience must have a holistic image about the other country; therefore, strategic communication is a set of activities [Leonard, 2002]. Indeed, the idea of a holistic image is important in terms of influencing the audience. However, this is possible only if a significant degree of hierarchical relations exist in the state, which was, for example, the case in the <span id="p9_9"/>Soviet Union. Therefore, non-state or semi-state “structures-conductors” could create a holistic image, and they often acted very successfully. The modern world is increasingly built according to the network principle. <span id="p9_2"/>Influence of the state on foreign societies takes place not only through non-state actors that are “conductors”, but also through more independent structures that are actors of world politics. To a large extent, they independently implement ideas that are in line with state policy. Another thing is that complex questions arise about the actor nature of non-state structures in the framework of public diplomacy: to what extent do they consciously form the image of the state abroad, or is this a by-product of their activities? In the face of a huge number of non-state actors, how can it be possible and is it possible to regulate their activities? And if during the <span id="p9_1"/>Cold War, when public diplomacy was highly state supervised [Dolinskiy, 2011b], the question of the independence of the behavior of non-state actors of public diplomacy was not actually raised, today it is not so.</p>
<p class="text_indent">At the same time, the hierarchy of relations remains in the military sphere. The army of any state is built according to the type of hierarchy. It is no coincidence that the problem of strategic communication began to be developed in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (<span id="p9_5"/>NATO). For example, the NATO Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence, a NATO-accredited international military organization, quite broadly defines strategic communications, which includes public diplomacy, public affairs, military public affairs, information operations, and psychological operations.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp002_en004" id="R_15044-4038_chp002_en004" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>4</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">Formally, this understanding of public diplomacy, as well as the concept of propaganda, fits the definitions of public diplomacy given earlier. However, it seems that the concepts of public diplomacy and strategic communication are not identical. Strategic communication includes not only public diplomacy, but also other types of influence. These types of influence can be quite severe and fall under the definition of propaganda or information <span id="p9_3"/>wars.</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p10" aria-label="10" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>An important factor that influenced the <span id="p10_6"/>popularity of strategic communication among the military was not only the hierarchical organization of military structures, but also the fact that another level of the political organization of the world [Lebedeva, 2016] – the system of international (interstate) relations – after 30 years has not taken shape (another question was, how possible was its design?). The result was an intensified confrontation between states in the international arena. And this, in turn, led to the active inclusion of the information component in this confrontation. As a result, we are seeing a large number of information <span id="p10_3"/>wars in the modern world. Thus, despite the fact that public diplomacy is defined in different ways and, according to the widespread definition of it, does not exclude propaganda at all, the fundamental difference between strategic communication and public diplomacy is in the latter’s orientation towards soft power, the key point of which is attractiveness. At the same time, in a number of Russian studies, public diplomacy is associated with strategic communication.</p>
<p class="text_indent">It should be noted that the mere presence of attractiveness does not mean that this attractiveness is perceived by others. Soft power is only a potential that can be used, and it can only remain as a potential. The presence of attractiveness must still be disclosed, and must be shown to the other side. For this reason, Panova, following constructivist ideas, argues that creating attractiveness as a necessary condition for exercising soft power is nothing more than a linguistic construction of an interpretation of reality” [Panova, 2012: 15]. Another thing is that the special task is how to create this attraction. One of the important elements for creating attractiveness is the presence of a <span id="p10_8"/>trusting relationship [Kononenko, 2006]. Its absence initially leads to <span id="p10_7"/>suspicion and, eventually, a neutral or even negative perception. However, another situation is not excluded when the objective presence of attractiveness is not emphasized. In this case, the potential can become attractive on its own without any effort or action.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Another important point is that attractiveness is not a universal characteristic. It is obvious that any society is heterogeneous. One <span id="p10_5"/>social group is attracted to one thing, while another is attracted to another one. Therefore, there can be no universal attractiveness, or in other words, universal soft power, and, therefore, universal public diplomacy. Public diplomacy aimed at one social group may be perceived by another social group with a different value system as propaganda.</p>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch002_004">Public diplomacy and <span id="p10_4"/>national branding</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">If the ideas of strategic communication are largely associated with research in the military sphere, then from the field of marketing came the idea of public diplomacy as an activity that creates the brand of the state. One of the <span id="p11" aria-label="11" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>main roles here was played by Anholt, who introduced the term “national branding” and then came to the conclusion that public diplomacy is only a part of national branding. He wrote, “I have always intended Nation Branding to consider how the nation as a whole presents and represents itself to other nations, whereas PD appears to concentrate exclusively on the presentation and representation of government policy to other publics” [2006, p. 271]. This understanding of public diplomacy also raises a number of questions. First, Anholt sees the activities of non-state actors only as “conductors” of state policy, depriving them of their independence. Unfortunately, the questions about the actor nature of non-state structures and their independence and interaction (or lack of interaction) with the state in the framework of public diplomacy have not yet received due theoretical understanding.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Second, the brand aims not only to make a product attractive, but also to sell it. Public diplomacy does not always involve the latter, although there are some areas that involve selling, such as <span id="p11_5"/>tourism. However, in this case, the commercial side appears. In addition, it is relatively easy to abandon a product brand for one reason or another. It can be changed. The national image is focused on the long term and its replacement is difficult.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Third, creating a brand does not involve a dialogue. The brand is offered to the buyer, but the seller does not enter into discussions with the buyer regarding the brand. At best, the seller collects the buyer’s opinions in order to further develop the brand. It is a different matter in the case of public diplomacy, when representatives of official structures and non-state “conductors” and actors in most cases directly (or indirectly through social networks, chat rooms, etc.) interact with representatives of foreign society.</p>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch002_005">The main characteristics of public diplomacy</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">Thus, due to the cardinal changes that have taken place in the world since the middle of the last century, the definition of public diplomacy as the influence of the state directly or indirectly through non-state actors on the foreign audience began to include many different instruments of influence. In practice, all states use this toolkit in various combinations, paying little attention to the accuracy of the name of one or another instrument of influence. The same thing is happening in the scientific sphere. At present, as a result of the restructuring of interstate relations, which did not take shape after the end of the <span id="p11_1"/>Cold War, international relations and international studies are becoming extremely ideologized and politicized. As a result, <span id="p11_2"/>fake news is widely used in the practice of interaction, and public diplomacy is identified with propaganda. Therefore, it seems to be extremely <span id="p12" aria-label="12" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>important to distinguish between different instruments of influence on foreign audiences.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Thus, the distinguishing features of public diplomacy from other instruments of influence are:</p>
<ol class="none">
<li>1 In practical terms,
<ul class="bullet">
<li>Creation of attractiveness and taking into account the interests of a foreign audience</li>
<li>Focus on cooperation and dialogue <span id="p12_2"/>with foreign audiences</li>
<li><span id="p12_4"/>Openness in relationships</li>
<li>Orientation to the foreign policy of the state implementing public diplomacy</li>
</ul></li>
<li>2 In theoretical terms,
<ul class="bullet">
<li>Focus on the concept of soft power</li>
<li>Using a neoliberal or constructivist theory</li>
</ul></li>
</ol>
<p class="text_noindent">Any actions related to influencing an external audience and not meeting these criteria cannot be considered public diplomacy. Of course, there are a number of characteristics that define the new public diplomacy, including networking, P2P communication, and others. These are important characteristics of modern public diplomacy, but they are not criteria that distinguish public diplomacy from other instruments of state influence on foreign societies and, rather, characterize its current state, as well as the effectiveness of influence.</p>
<p class="text_indent">In Russia, as in other countries, sometimes no distinction is made between the various instruments of influencing the external audience. This causes many problems. Thus, public diplomacy, when evaluated by various Russian and foreign authors, is often identified with other instruments of influencing an external audience through propaganda and strategic communication. However, these are different means of influence and require separate consideration. Thus, according to the selected criteria, neither propaganda nor strategic communication is public diplomacy. The situation is more complicated when public diplomacy is used, but due to the strong ideologization and politicization of modern international relations, it is interpreted as propaganda. The problem of possible variants of impact interpretation requires a separate theoretical development. In this case, when considering public diplomacy in Russia, I will proceed, first, from the specified criteria of public diplomacy, and second, from how public diplomacy is understood and studied in Russia, but not how these actions are interpreted and can be perceived outside of Russia by various groups <span id="p13" aria-label="13" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>of the population, as well as by the governments of different countries or by various researchers, both within Russia and abroad. The interpretation of actions in public diplomacy depends on many political and ideological reasons, as well as social factors. This is a different problem.</p>
<aside epub:type="footnotes" role="doc-footnote" class="endnotes">
<h2 id="_15044-4038_chp002_nt001" class="ENH">Notes</h2>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp002_en001"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp002_en001">1</a></span> The term “public diplomacy” was used earlier. See Cull, N. (2006, April 18). “Public diplomacy” before Gullion: The evolution of a phrase. <i>USC Center on Public Diplomacy</i>. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.uscpublicdiplomacy.org">www.uscpublicdiplomacy.org/blog/public-diplomacy-gullion-evolution-phrase</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp002_en002"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp002_en002">2</a></span> Edward R. Murrow Center of Public Diplomacy. Retrieved from <a href="https://publicdiplomacy.wikia.org">https://publicdiplomacy.wikia.org/wiki/The_Edward_R._Murrow_Center_of_Public_Diplomacy</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp002_en003"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp002_en003">3</a></span> Knight, J. (2014, January 31). The limits of soft power in higher education. <i>University World News</i>. Issue 305. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.universityworldnews.com">www.universityworldnews.com/article.php?story=20140129134636725</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp002_en004"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp002_en004">4</a></span> NATO Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence. <i>About Strategic Communications</i>. Retrieved from <a href="https://stratcomcoe.org">https://stratcomcoe.org/about-strategic-communications</a></div>
</aside>
</section>
</article>
</body>
</html>
