<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" dir="ltr">
<head>
<title>3 Formation and development of Russian public diplomacy</title>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/mathml.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<article id="ch03" epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<h1 class="chap" epub:type="title" id="_15044-4038_ch003"><a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch003"><span id="p14" aria-label="14" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>3</a> <a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch003">Formation and development of Russian public diplomacy</a></h1>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch003_001">Origins of Russian public diplomacy: Soviet period</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">Russia has not stayed away from the revival of public diplomacy in the 21st century. At the same time, Russian public diplomacy (at the time defined as people’s diplomacy) and experience in public diplomacy have their roots in the Soviet period. Public diplomacy of the Soviet time was significantly ideologically oriented. Soviet practice and experience are reflected in the formation and development of Russian public diplomacy, as well as in its current state.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The term “public diplomacy” was not used in the USSR. Instead, another notion was used – “people’s diplomacy”, which was understood as the activity of scientists, artists, astronauts, and so on that was aimed at creating a positive image of the Soviet Union abroad. Accordingly, public diplomacy was actually limited to the sphere of activities of non-state or formal non-state actors. The activities of official structures in the international arena were not included in the concept of people’s diplomacy. However, the ideological basis has disappeared although, of course, <span id="p14_7"/>public speeches delivered by Soviet officials were often aimed at an external audience.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The question of the attractiveness of a socialist state actually arose from the first days of its existence. After the revolution of 1917, Russia found itself in international isolation. In 1920, <span id="p14_5"/>international recognition of Russia began. <span id="p14_3"/>Estonia and the Republic of Latvia were among the first to recognize it. Of particular importance for the international recognition of the USSR was the <span id="p14_4"/>Genoese Conference in 1922, which was held with the participation of representatives of 29 states and five British dominions. All of this prompted the USSR to establish and develop both diplomacy and public (people’s) diplomacy in the country.</p>
<p class="text_indent">As for public diplomacy, in the mid-1920s, the USSR created the <span id="p14_1"/>All-Union Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries (VOKS), the aim of which was, on the one hand, to popularize the culture of the peoples <span id="p15" aria-label="15" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>of the Soviet Union abroad and, on the other hand, to introduce the culture of foreign states to the people of the USSR. Its activi<span id="p15_17"/>ties were influenced by similar organizations that were created earlier in the world, such as <span id="p15_1"/>Alliance Française and others. A certain role in the establishment of VOKS was played by the fact that <span id="p15_9"/>foreign NGOs for the fight against hunger worked in Russia during this time [Gridnev, 2000]. Such cultural figures as Mayakovsky, Prokofiev, Rolan, Shostakovich, Dreiser, and others took an active part in the work of VOKS.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en001" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en001" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>1</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">In 1958, the <span id="p15_21"/>Union of Soviet Societies for Friendship and Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries (SSOD) was created based on VOKS, and the task was the development of cultural and scientific ties between public organizations, institutions, and individual representatives of science and culture of the USSR and foreign countries.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Scientific ties developed during the Soviet period, primarily within the USSR Academy of Sciences. <span id="p15_19"/>Soviet <span id="p15_18"/>scientists were active participants in the <span id="p15_14"/>Pugwash movement of scientists for peace, disarmament, international security, and the prevention of nuclear war, which began to operate in the 1950s and played a significant role in the prevention of nuclear war. Participants in the Pugwash movement have put forward initiatives to ban nuclear testing, as well to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. <span id="p15_16"/>Russian scholars were well acquainted with their foreign colleagues in scientific activity, which formed a high level of <span id="p15_20"/>trust [Ryzhov &amp; Lebedev, 2007]. During the <span id="p15_5"/>Cold War, there were other formats of interaction between Soviet scientists and their foreign colleagues. For example, the <span id="p15_7"/>Dartmouth Conferences, which began in 1960 as an informal periodic meeting of Soviet and American scientists, became a de facto channel for information and exchange of views between the USSR and the United States on international security issues. They discussed issues of arms control and disarmament and engaged in cultural and scientific exchanges [Moskovskiy, 2013].</p>
<p class="text_indent">The <span id="p15_10"/>media became an important tool of public diplomacy during the Soviet time. In 1929, <span id="p15_11"/>Moscow Radio began to broadcast regularly to foreign countries. The purpose of this radio station was to acquaint foreign audiences with life in Russia and the Russian point of view on various events in the world. Initially, the broadcast language was German, but soon the radio station began to work in French and English, and <span id="p15_4"/>broadcasting in Chinese began in the 1940s. It is noteworthy that the broadcasting to the Soviet Union of such radio stations as the <span id="p15_2"/>BBC and the <span id="p15_22"/>Voice of America was carried out later. Since the late 1970s, the <span id="p15_8"/>English-language service has been known as <span id="p15_15"/>Radio Moscow World Service.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Great importance was attached to sports diplomacy in the USSR. In 1980, Moscow hosted the <span id="p15_13"/>Olympic Games, which were held for the first time in <span id="p16" aria-label="16" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Eastern Europe. However, these Games were boycotted by more than 60 countries due to the entry of <span id="p16_9"/>Russian troops into Afghanistan in 1979.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Cultural <span id="p16_10"/>diplomacy (tours of theaters, exhibitions, etc.) was also used in the Soviet Union. A detailed <span id="p16_3"/>overview of cultural diplomacy in the USSR, its mechanisms, structures, and activities in the international arena is given in the book edited by Nagornaya titled <i>Soviet Cultural Diplomacy in the Cold War (1945–1989)</i> [Soviet Cultural Diplomacy… , 2018]. At the same time, cultural diplomacy is widely understood in this book. It includes sports diplomacy, scientific diplomacy, <span id="p16_5"/>peacemaking, and so on.</p>
<p class="text_indent">In the later Soviet period, children’s people’s diplomacy began to develop, representing contacts between children from the USSR and the United States [see, e.g., Mizherikov, 2015], as well as the organization of teleconferences between the USSR and the United States.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Thus, after the collapse of the USSR, Russia had some experience in public diplomacy (people’s diplomacy). However, this experience, first, related to the Cold War period – a period of confrontation with the West. Second, public diplomacy in the USSR was highly centralized. It was largely coordinated by the state. Third, despite the fact that certain public diplomacy events could be widely covered by the media, the number of participants in public diplomacy was very limited. For example, young scholars usually remained aloof from activities in the framework of public diplomacy.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Thus, despite the fact that Soviet soft power and public diplomacy differ from modern means of influence, which Tsygankov, in particular, wrote about [2006], in the Soviet time, institutions designed to carry out public diplomacy were formed, and structures and channels of interaction were built with a foreign audience. These institutions were of a state or semi-state nature and involved relatively few Soviet people in their work, since communication between countries during the Cold War was limited not only by ideology, but also by technical possibilities of interaction that are not comparable to modern means of communication. Therefore, the G2P interaction formula was valid for all states at that time, including the USSR.</p>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch003_002">Russian public diplomacy in the 1990s and early 2000s</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">The general decline in interest in the instrument of public diplomacy in the 1990s also affected Russia. Nevertheless, some steps were taken to maintain public diplomacy in new Russia during this period. Established in 1992, the <span id="p16_6"/>Russian Association for International Cooperation (RAMS) became the legal successor of the SSOD.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en002" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en002" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>2</sup></a> In 1994, the <span id="p16_7"/>Russian Center for International Scientific and Cultural Cooperation (Roszarubezhtsentr)<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en003" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en003" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>3</sup></a> was created under the Government of the Russian Federation.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en004" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en004" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>4</sup></a> In 1993, the Decree of President Boris Yeltsin created the broadcasting company Voice of Russia based <span id="p17" aria-label="17" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>on <span id="p17_3"/>Radio Moscow World Service.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en005" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en005" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>5</sup></a> However, changes in the practice of public diplomacy in Russia in the 1990s did not affect its essential characteristics, which were developed in the Soviet time. Most of the Voice of Russia employees continued to work, but changes were made to the broadcasting. For example, the Chinese editorial office launched a weekly program for businesspeople from the PRC with advice on how to do business in Russia and what legislation was in force in Russia in this area.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en006" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en006" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>6</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">In general, the changes in the practice of public diplomacy in Russia in the 1990s did not affect the essential characteristics of public diplomacy that developed during the Soviet period.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Russia returned to the practice of public diplomacy actively in the 2000s. An important factor was the revival of public diplomacy in the world. However, along with this, the reason for Russia’s appeal to public diplomacy in the 21st century was its focus on regaining its influence on world politics. This orientation in foreign policy was a kind of reaction to the significant loss of Russia’s position on the world stage in the 1990s.</p>
<p class="text_indent">At the same time, the concept of soft power and its applicability to public diplomacy was not immediately accepted by the academic community or by politicians in Russia. The idea of Nye, which he put forward in the early 1990s, was first met with a great deal of skepticism. The most common objection was that Nye’s concept did not contain anything new. The reasoning was based on the fact that since the advent of humanity, some groups have somehow “softly” influenced others. In the academic environment, <span id="p17_4"/>realism was dominant, so it was difficult to distinguish between soft power and propaganda. At the same time, the general background for criticism of Nye’s concept was euphoria in relation to the “end of history” and, as a consequence, the absence of any special need to influence <span id="p17_2"/>public opinion in other countries.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Since the beginning of the 2000s, Russia has taken actions in two directions in order to activate its foreign policy and to strengthen its position on the world stage:</p>
<ol class="none">
<li>1 The adoption of official strategic documents that fixed the importance of using soft power and public diplomacy in Russia’s foreign policy.</li>
<li>2 The formation of a number of structures for the implementation of public diplomacy and the revitalization of their activities. The greatest activity occurred during the second half of the noughties, when the practice of public diplomacy began to develop through two channels: official (e.g., briefings at the Russian Foreign Ministry, websites of the Russian Foreign Ministry and Russian embassies) and unofficial (activity of non-state actors and/or actors associated with the state).</li>
</ol>
<p class="text_noindent"><span id="p18" aria-label="18" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>The development of the practice of public diplomacy in the 1990s–early 2000s gave the first impetus to research soft power and public diplomacy in Russia. Discussion of Nye’s concept in Russian academic circles was also important in this regard.</p>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch003_003">Issues of soft power and public diplomacy in the foreign policy concepts of the Russian Federation</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">Since the 2000s, the issue of public diplomacy and soft power has been reflected in official Russian documents, primarily in such a strategic document as the <span id="p18_6"/>Russian Foreign Policy Concept, which sets the main directions of Russian foreign policy. Therefore, it is important how they define the place and role of public diplomacy and soft power.</p>
<p class="text_indent">From 2000 to the present, four Russian Foreign Policy Concepts have been adopted. At the same time, the approach to influencing the foreign audience was somewhat specified.</p>
<p class="text_indent">A section on “information support of foreign policy activity” appeared in the Russian Foreign Policy Concept in 2000. This section sets out the task of influencing the societies of foreign countries by bringing objective and accurate information about their positions on major international issues, foreign policy initiatives, and actions of the Russian Federation, as well as the achievements of Russian culture, science, and intellectual creativity to the broad circles of the world community.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en007" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en007" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>7</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">The term “public diplomacy” appeared for the first time in the Russian Foreign Policy Concept in 2008. Public diplomacy is understood as an instrument of information support for foreign policy. The Concept emphasizes that Russia will seek its objective perception in the world and develop its own effective means of <span id="p18_3"/>informational influence on public opinion abroad. At the same time, along with public diplomacy, the Concept used the term “people’s diplomacy” as the potential of civil society institutions.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en008" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en008" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>8</sup></a> Thus, the role of non-state actors was highlighted.</p>
<p class="text_indent">In 2010, the ideas of public diplomacy were developed in a document approved by the president of the Russian Federation: “The Main Directions of Russian Policy in the Field of International Cultural and Humanitarian Cooperation”.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en009" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en009" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>9</sup></a> The document notes that competition in the cultural and civilizational dimension is currently increasing, so there is a <span id="p18_1"/>need for cultural diplomacy. It is noteworthy that the term “public diplomacy” was not used in it. Instead, this document talked about cultural diplomacy and people’s diplomacy, which were understood quite widely, including smoothing international contradictions, promoting modernization, and promoting Russian culture as a product on the world market.</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p19" aria-label="19" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>The Foreign Policy Concepts of 2013<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en010" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en010" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>10</sup></a> and of 2016 confirmed the importance of Russian informational influence in the world. Russian Foreign Policy Concept 2016 said,</p>
<aside title="quote2" epub:type="pullquote" role="doc-pullquote" class="quotes">
<p class="text_noindent">Russia seeks to ensure that the world has an objective image of the country, develops its own effective ways to influence foreign audiences, promotes Russian and <span id="p19_9"/>Russian-language <span id="p19_6"/><span id="p19_7"/>media in the global information space, providing them with necessary government support, is proactive in international information cooperation, and takes necessary steps to counter threats to its information security.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en011" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en011" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>11</sup></a></p>
</aside>
<p class="text_indent">In addition, the 2016 Concept puts a special emphasis on <span id="p19_2"/>cultural identity of the peoples of Russia and Russian education and research as well as consolidation of the Russian-speaking diaspora.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en012" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en012" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>12</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">The term “soft power” appears in the 2013 Foreign Policy Concept. It says,</p>
<aside title="quote3" epub:type="pullquote" role="doc-pullquote" class="quotes">
<p class="text_noindent">“Soft power”, a comprehensive toolkit for achieving foreign policy objectives building on civil society potential, information, cultural and other methods and technologies alternative to traditional diplomacy, is becoming an indispensable component of modern international relations. At the same time, increasing <span id="p19_3"/>global competition and the growing crisis potential sometimes creates a risk of destructive and unlawful use of “soft power” and <span id="p19_4"/>human rights concepts to exert political pressure on sovereign states, interfere in their internal affairs, destabilize their political situation, manipulate <span id="p19_8"/>public opinion, including under the pretext of financing cultural and human rights projects abroad.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en013" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en013" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>13</sup></a></p>
</aside>
<p class="text_indent">This understanding of soft power shows a wary perception of this concept. However, in the 2016 Foreign Policy Concept, soft power is already defined the following way:</p>
<aside title="quote4" epub:type="pullquote" role="doc-pullquote" class="quotes">
<p class="text_noindent">“soft power” has become an integral part of efforts to achieve foreign policy objectives. This primarily includes the tools offered by civil society, as well as various methods and technologies – from information and communication, to humanitarian and other types.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en014" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en014" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>14</sup></a></p>
</aside>
<p class="text_indent">In general, in the 21st century, Russian official documents clearly trace Russia’s desire to use public diplomacy to build its positive image abroad using soft power, which is understood quite widely as non-force impact. At the same time, soft power is widely understood in documents as a non-forceful influence.</p>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch003_004"><span id="p20" aria-label="20" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Reforming old structures in the field of public diplomacy, creating new ones, and developing their activity</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">The course taken in official documents on the use of public diplomacy means was reflected in the development of appropriate structures for its implementation. On the one hand, existing structures were reformed, and on the other, a whole series of new ones were created. Among the structures that have been reformed, and that should be highlighted, include the media, such as Voice of Russia and RIA-Novosti. In addition, according to the Decree of President V. Putin in 2002, Russian foreign <span id="p20_5"/>centers of cultural and scientific cooperation were transferred from the jurisdiction of the Government of the Russian Federation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia in order to improve coordination of work.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en015" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en015" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>15</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">In 2008, based on <span id="p20_12"/>Roszarubezhtsentr, according to the Decree of the President of Russia, the Federal Agency for the <span id="p20_2"/>Commonwealth of Independent States, was created for <span id="p20_3"/>compatriots living abroad and for international <span id="p20_7"/>humanitarian cooperation (<span id="p20_11"/>Rossotrudnichestvo),focusing on issues of supporting the Russian language and culture and <span id="p20_9"/>interaction with compatriots.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en016" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en016" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>16</sup></a> At the beginning of 2020, Rossotrudnichestvo was represented in 80 countries by 97 representative offices: 73 Russian centers of science and culture in 62 countries and 24 representatives of the agency in embassies in 21 countries.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en017" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en017" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>17</sup></a> The results of activities and coordination work are annually reflected in the reports of Rossotrudnichestvo, which formulate the main emphases of the Russian policy of cultural and humanitarian cooperation with other countries. The last such document was released in 2019 and presented the results of activities for 2018.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en018" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en018" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>18</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">In general, the Russian <span id="p20_1"/>academic literature positively assesses the activities of Rossotrudnichestvo [see, e.g., Morozov &amp; Simons, 2020]. At the same time, criticism of this organization is also given. For example, Achkasova and Kostritskaya note that Rossotrudnichestvo has lost the mechanisms and technologies of interaction that existed for the spread of the Russian language and culture in the Soviet era [Achkasova &amp; Kostritskaya, 2014].</p>
<p class="text_indent">As for the state direction in the field of public diplomacy, government agencies working abroad and with foreign audiences (the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia, embassies, consulates, and others) began to create their own <span id="p20_15"/>websites. They provide information in <span id="p20_13"/>social networks also. Official structures, both in Russia and abroad, use social networks and websites to varying degrees and with different effects.</p>
<p class="text_indent">A number of new structures have been formed. In the field of mass media, one of the most striking phenomena was the creation of the foreign broadcasting channel Russia Today (later RT) in 2005. The task of the channel <span id="p21" aria-label="21" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>was to provide information about Russia, as well as to give a Russian perspective on world events. In principle, as far as the task is concerned, there was nothing new here in comparison with <span id="p21_15"/>radio <span id="p21_5"/>broadcasting. At first, the channel was broadcast in English, and then in Arabic, Spanish, and French. The concept of the channel changed as it developed. As Dolinskiy notes,</p>
<aside title="quote5" epub:type="pullquote" role="doc-pullquote" class="quotes">
<p class="text_noindent">At first, the channel attempted to do BBC-style… . Then it switched to a regional focus on the former Soviet Union, following the model of Al Jazeera… . Finally, the channel developed a policy of broadcasting “alternative” news that escape major networks and contradict the mainstream.</p>
<p class="attrib">[2013b]</p>
</aside>
<p class="text_indent">In addition to creating a television channel, a new format of influencing the societies of foreign countries with the help of <span id="p21_13"/>newspaper materials has appeared. <i><span id="p21_18"/>Rossiyskaya Gazeta</i> began to publish monthly tabs to such foreign publications as <i>The Daily Telegraph</i>, <i><span id="p21_22"/>Washington Post</i>, and <i>Le Figaro</i>, as well as to leading publications of <span id="p21_2"/>Argentina, <span id="p21_4"/>Brazil, <span id="p21_11"/>India, <span id="p21_12"/>Italy, and other countries.</p>
<p class="text_indent">In 2013, based on a Decree of the President of the Russian Federation, the <span id="p21_16"/>RIA Novosti news agency was liquidated and the international news agency <span id="p21_17"/>Rossiya Segodnya was created on its basis.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en019" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en019" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>19</sup></a> In addition, based on the same decree, the <span id="p21_20"/>Sputnik Agency was created to replace the <span id="p21_21"/>Voice of Russia radio station. The goals of such changes were described as improving the efficiency of work, including in terms of <span id="p21_10"/>funding,<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en020" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en020" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>20</sup></a> and strengthening the international component of broadcasting.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en021" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en021" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>21</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">In the 2000s, a number of funds were established. The Alexander Gorchakov Public Diplomacy Fund was created based on the decision of the president of Russia.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en022" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en022" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>22</sup></a> Among the fund’s tasks are to promote the formation of a favorable <span id="p21_14"/>public opinion for Russia abroad; to promote social, cultural, educational, scientific, and management programs in the field of international relations and others; to promote the intellectual, cultural, scientific, and business potential of Russia; and to participate in the educational process and other activities.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en023" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en023" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>23</sup></a> The fund implements a large number of scientific and educational programs, including the <span id="p21_3"/>Balkan, Baltic, and Caucasian Dialogues, as well as the <span id="p21_8"/>Dialogue for the Future. They involve both civil society <span id="p21_6"/>representatives and retired diplomats.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Another fund created in 2007 based on the Decree of the President of Russia was the <span id="p21_19"/>Russkiy Mir Foundation.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en024" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en024" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>24</sup></a> One of the most important goals of the fund was to popularize the Russian language, which is an important element of Russian and world culture, as well as to support programs for studying the Russian language abroad.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en025" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en025" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>25</sup></a> The fund is financed both from <span id="p22" aria-label="22" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>its budget and from private organizations. The year 2007 was declared as the year of the Russian language. The presidential address to the Federal Assembly talked about developing the Russian language in the country, supporting programs of its study in the near and far abroad, and, in general, promoting Russian language and literature throughout the world.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en026" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en026" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>26</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">Along with such large funds as the <span id="p22_7"/>Gorchakov Fund and the Russkiy Mir Foundation in Russia, a number of small organizations can be attributed to NGOs involved in public diplomacy. Among them are organizations that should fall under the term “<span id="p22_3"/>creative diplomacy”, promoted by N. V. Burlinova.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Russia has begun to pay a lot of attention to <span id="p22_8"/>international sports competitions, seeing in this not only opportunities for public diplomacy but also improving the health of the country’s population. Great importance has been attached to the holding of major sporting events in Russia, such as the 2014 <span id="p22_14"/>Sochi Olympic Games and the 2018 <span id="p22_6"/>FIFA World Cup. The <span id="p22_16"/>Universiade in Kazan in 2013 and a number of other events were also significant events in this regard. They are among the means of Russian public diplomacy. In general, sports diplomacy, like cultural diplomacy, has traditions that go back to the Soviet period. Various sports programs are now widely used. Also, master’s programs in sports diplomacy began to appear in <span id="p22_13"/>Russian universities that are focused on training managers in the sports field who are capable of representing the interests of Russian sports in the world sports arena.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en027" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en027" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>27</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">Until the beginning of the 21st century, Russia almost did not pay attention to working with <span id="p22_2"/>compatriots living abroad. After the adoption of the Federal Law on the State Policy of the Russian Federation in relation to compatriots abroad in 1999,<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en028" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en028" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>28</sup></a> the situation has started to change fundamentally. The concept of “compatriot” is widely understood in Russia. It includes not only Russian citizens, but also individuals who share common language, history, cultural heritage, traditions, and customs with Russians, as well as descendants of these individuals. According to 2010 data, over 30 million compatriots lived outside of Russia, most of them in the territory of the states of the former USSR.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en029" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en029" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>29</sup></a> In May 2011, by Decree of the President of Russia, a Fund for Support and Protection of the Rights of Compatriots Living Abroad was created.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en030" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en030" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>30</sup></a> The purpose of the fund is to provide Russian compatriots with legal and other necessary support.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en031" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en031" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>31</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">In the 2000s, Russia paid close attention to such resources of public diplomacy as higher <span id="p22_5"/>education and <span id="p22_1"/>academic exchanges. One of the reasons for this is that during the Soviet period, education and science were the most important areas of foreign relations of the USSR. Students from many <span id="p22_4"/>developing countries studied in the USSR. In 1960, the <span id="p22_11"/>Peoples’ Friendship University (now the Russian Peoples’ Friendship University – RUDN University<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en032" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en032" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>32</sup></a>) was established to train specialists, primarily for countries in <span id="p23" aria-label="23" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/><span id="p23_2"/>Asia, <span id="p23_1"/>Africa, and <span id="p23_18"/>Latin America. In addition, Russian <span id="p23_15"/>higher <span id="p23_8"/>education in the world in a number of areas, in particular applied mathematics, physics, and a number of others, is competitive. Also, for example, education in the field of medicine is attractive for students from a number of countries, in particular from India, in terms of price and quality.</p>
<p class="text_indent">In Russia, after the disintegration of the Soviet Union, the number of <span id="p23_11"/>foreign students dropped sharply as a result of <span id="p23_12"/>funding problems for higher education, as well as the outflow of university professors and their transition to business. At the same time, in the 21st century, the processes of <span id="p23_16"/>internationalization of education begin to develop at a rapid pace in the world. As a result, <span id="p23_9"/>Europe launched the <span id="p23_4"/>Bologna Process aimed at harmonizing higher education. Russia did not stand aside from the processes of internationalization of higher education. In 2003, Russia joined the Bologna Process. The country switched to a two-stage system of training in higher education – bachelor’s and master’s degrees. Double diploma master’s degrees were created in various areas of training, <span id="p23_23"/>student exchange programs were increased, and so on. A few years later, Russia adopted the “Concept of Export of Educational Services of the Russian Federation for the Period 2011–2020”, which defines the main goals and objectives of the Russian Federation in the field of providing educational services to foreign citizens in Russia and abroad.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en033" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en033" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>33</sup></a> Russia is also taking a number of measures to develop national education, including adopting the National Education Project, which aims to “ensure the global competitiveness of Russian <span id="p23_6"/><span id="p23_7"/>education and make the Russian Federation one of the top 10 countries in the world for the quality of general education”,<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en034" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en034" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>34</sup></a> and increasing funding for education.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Education, along with science and culture, perhaps to the greatest extent presupposes not only impact but interaction and dialogue [Lebedeva &amp; Fort, 2009]. Russia’s accession to the Bologna Process in 2003 greatly expanded the possibilities of student exchanges. According to <span id="p23_25"/>UNE<span id="p23_22"/>SCO, the number of Russian students enrolled in <span id="p23_19"/>mobility programs in 2017 was more than 250,000.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en035" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en035" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>35</sup></a> In turn, the number of foreign students in Russia in 2017 was about 278,000 [Ovchinnikova, Zotkina, &amp; Getmanskaya, 2019]. Students from The Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), <span id="p23_3"/>Baltic countries, and <span id="p23_13"/>Georgia in 2018 accounted for approximately 75% of all foreign students studying in Russia.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en036" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en036" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>36</sup></a> Many students from the CIS speak Russian and therefore do not have a language barrier to study at Russian universities.</p>
<p class="text_indent">To strengthen cooperation with the countries of integration entities that include Russia – the CIS, Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa (<span id="p23_5"/>BRICS), and The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) – <span id="p23_20"/>network universities have been established. The network university includes several universities that have entered into partnerships and provide students with the opportunity to study at a <span id="p23_21"/>partner university for a certain period of time. <span id="p24" aria-label="24" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>These <span id="p24_27"/>universities are the universities of the CIS, SCO, and BRICS, respectively. The issues of organizing network universities are discussed in Russia [see, e.g., Kovalenko &amp; Smolik, 2014].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Interaction between Russian <span id="p24_22"/>scientists and their foreign colleagues has also increased significantly. If in the Soviet period these were only individual researchers’ contacts of those who achieved significant success in science, now <span id="p24_15"/>international contacts affect almost everyone involved in science. New formats of public diplomacy with the participation of researchers have appeared. This is largely due to the development of modern information and communication technologies. For example, the <span id="p24_5"/><span id="p24_26"/>Trianon Dialogue was created, which was initiated in 2017 by the presidents <span id="p24_2"/>of Russia and <span id="p24_11"/>France. The Trianon Dialogue is an interaction between civil societies of the two countries based on a digital platform that combines a <span id="p24_19"/>portal and a social network. Scientists, including university rectors, participate in this dialogue. Urban and educational issues were the first topics of discussion in the Trianon Dialogue.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en037" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en037" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>37</sup></a></p>
<p class="text_indent">In the field of cultural diplomacy, touring and <span id="p24_8"/>exhibition activities developed. New formats have also appeared. For example, the <span id="p24_1"/>Children’s Musical Theater of the Young Actor (DMTUA), founded in 1988 by the Honored Artist of Russia Alexander Fedorov in 2004, initiated and became one of the founders of the <span id="p24_20"/>Prologue Children’s Theater Festival. Despite the fact that the festival was originally national, it had international resonance.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The <span id="p24_21"/>Russian Orthodox Church (ROC) has stepped up its international activities. Among the steps taken by the church were the following: a meeting in 1995 with the then UN Secretary General B. Boutros-Ghali and a speech by the patriarch at the European office of the UN, dedicated to the role of the church in overcoming <span id="p24_6"/>ethnic strife; in 2002, a meeting with the leadership of various structures of the European Union and confirmation of the readiness of the Russian Orthodox Church to participate in a broad <span id="p24_13"/>ideological dialogue with international structures aimed at creating a multipolar and multi-structured world order; and a number of others.</p>
<p class="text_indent">It should be noted that in order to influence a foreign audience, Russia began to use, among other things, the services of <span id="p24_10"/>foreign PR agencies. One of the most famous examples in this area was the American company <span id="p24_17"/>Ketchum. An important milestone in the company’s activities in Russia was the preparations for the <span id="p24_12"/>G8 summit in <span id="p24_24"/>St. Petersburg in 2006. Ketchum continues to interact with Russia, where its representatives work.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp003_en038" id="R_15044-4038_chp003_en038" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>38</sup></a></p>
<aside epub:type="footnotes" role="doc-footnote" class="endnotes">
<h2 id="_15044-4038_chp003_nt001" class="ENH">Notes</h2>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en001"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en001">1</a></span> All-Union Society for Cultural Relations with Abroad (VOKS). Russian Center for Science and Culture in Prague. Representative office of Rossotrudnichestvo in <span id="p25" aria-label="25" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the Czech Republic (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://rsvk.cz">http://rsvk.cz/blog/2015/09/08/vsesoyuznoe-obshhestvo-kulturnoj-svyazi-s-zagranitsej-voks/</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en002"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en002">2</a></span> Russian Association for International Cooperation (RAMS) website (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://rams-international.ru">http://rams-international.ru/</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en003"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en003">3</a></span> Later, Rossotrudnichestvo was formed on its basis.</div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en004"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en004">4</a></span> Polozheniye o Rossiyskoy tsentre mezhdunarodnogo nauchnogo i kul’turnogo sotrudnichestva pri pravitel’stve Rossiyskoy Federatsii (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://docs.cntd.ru">http://docs.cntd.ru/document/9008866</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en005"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en005">5</a></span> Federation B. Yeltsin of December 22, 1993 No. 2258 “On the establishment of the holding company “Russian State Television and Radio Engineering Center “Efir” and “Russian State Radio Broadcasting Company” Voice of Russia”. (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://www.innovbusiness.ru">www.innovbusiness.ru/pravo/DocumShow_DocumID_65277.html</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en006"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en006">6</a></span> Teper’ ikh slyshat tol’ko nebesa. Proshchal’nyy vzglyad na radiostantsiyu “Golos Rossii”. Lenta.ru. 2013, December 18. (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="https://lenta.ru">https://lenta.ru/articles/2013/12/18/voiceofrussia/</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en007"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en007">7</a></span> Concept of Foreign Policy of the Russian Federation 2000 (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://docs.cntd.ru">http://docs.cntd.ru/document/901764263</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en008"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en008">8</a></span> Concept of Foreign Policy of the Russian Federation 2008 (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://www.kremlin.ru">www.kremlin.ru/acts/news/785</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en009"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en009">9</a></span> Ukaz “O Rossiyskom tsentre mezhdunarodnogo nauchnogo i kul’turnogo sotrudnichestva pri Ministerstve inostrannykhdel Rossiyskoy Federatsii” (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://www.mid.ru">www.mid.ru/web/guest/foreign_policy/official_documents/-/asset_publisher/CptICkB6BZ29/content/id/224550</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en010"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en010">10</a></span> Concept of the Foreign Policy of the Russian Federation. Approved by President of the Russian Federation V. Putin on February 12, 2013. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.mid.ru">www.mid.ru/search?p_p_id=3&p_p_lifecycle=0&p_p_state=maximized&p_p_mode=view&_3_struts_action=%2Fsearch%2Fsearch#</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en011"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en011">11</a></span> Foreign Policy Concept of the Russian Federation. Approved by President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin on November 30, 2016. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.mid.ru">www.mid.ru/foreign_policy/news/-/asset_publisher/cKNonkJE02Bw/content/id/2542248?p_p_id=101_INSTANCE_cKNonkJE02Bw&_101_INSTANCE_cKNonkJE02Bw_languageId=en_GB</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en012"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en012">12</a></span> Ibid.</div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en013"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en013">13</a></span> Concept of the Foreign Policy of the Russian Federation. Approved by President of the Russian Federation V. Putin on February 12, 2013. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.mid.ru">www.mid.ru/search?p_p_id=3&p_p_lifecycle=0&p_p_state=maximized&p_p_mode=view&_3_struts_action=%2Fsearch%2Fsearch#</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en014"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en014">14</a></span> Foreign Policy Concept of the Russian Federation. Approved by President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin on November 30, 2016. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.mid.ru">www.mid.ru/en/foreign_policy/official_documents/-/asset_publisher/CptICkB6BZ29/content/id/2542248</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en015"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en015">15</a></span> Decree “On the Russian Center for International Scientific and Cultural Cooperation under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation”.</div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en016"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en016">16</a></span> Ibid.</div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en017"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en017">17</a></span> Rossotrudnichestvo website. Retrieved from <a href="http://rs.gov.ru">http://rs.gov.ru/en</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en018"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en018">18</a></span> Report on the results of the activities of Rossotrudnichestvo in the implementation of the powers vested in it for 2018.</div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en019"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en019">19</a></span> Ukaz “O nekotorykh merakh po povysheniyu effektivnosti deyatel’nosti gosudarstvennykh sredstv massovoy informatsii” (in Russian). 2013, December 9. Retrieved from <a href="http://kremlin.ru">http://kremlin.ru/events/president/news/19805</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en020"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en020">20</a></span> <span id="p26" aria-label="26" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Badanin, R. Zachem nam agentstvo “Rossiya segodnya” (in Russian). <i>Forbes</i>. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.forbes.ru">www.forbes.ru/mneniya-column/vertikal/248408-zachem-nam-agentstvo-rossiya-segodnya</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en021"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en021">21</a></span> Margarita Simon’yan – o RIA “Novosti” i bitve za Ukrainu. Moskovskiy komsomolets. 2014, March 6 (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://www.mk.ru">www.mk.ru/social/interview/2014/03/06/995044-margarita-simonyan-o-ria-novosti-i-bitve-za-ukrainu.html</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en022"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en022">22</a></span> Rasporyazheniye Prezidenta Rossiyskoy Federatsii ot 02.02.2010 g. № 60-rp (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://www.kremlin.ru">www.kremlin.ru/acts/bank/30577</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en023"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en023">23</a></span> Aleksander Gorchakov Public Diplomacy Fund. Retrieved from <a href="https://gorchakovfund.ru">https://gorchakovfund.ru/en/</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en024"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en024">24</a></span> Ukaz Prezidenta Rossiyskoy Federatsii o sozdanii fonda “Russkiy mir” (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://www.kremlin.ru">www.kremlin.ru/acts/bank/25689</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en025"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en025">25</a></span> Russkiymir website. Retrieved from <a href="https://russkiymir.ru">https://russkiymir.ru/en/</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en026"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en026">26</a></span> Poslaniye Prezidenta Rossii V. Putina Federal’nomu Sobraniyu Rossiyskoy Federatsii 26 aprelya 2007 g (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://www.kremlin.ru">www.kremlin.ru/acts/bank/25522</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en027"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en027">27</a></span> See, for example, the MGIMO master’s program in sports diplomacy. Retrieved from <a href="https://sports.mgimo.ru">https://sports.mgimo.ru/en</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en028"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en028">28</a></span> Federal’nyy zakon o gosudarstvennoy politike Rossiyskoy Federatsii v otnoshenii sootechestvennikov za rubezhom (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://www.consultant.ru">www.consultant.ru/cons/cgi/online.cgi?req=doc&base=LAW&n=150465&fld=134&dst=100182,0&rnd=0.8636964689926614#09190351209401864</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en029"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en029">29</a></span> Chepurin, A. V. Za predelami Rossii seychas prozhivayet okolo 30 millionov nashikh sootechestvennikov. Interv’yu. 2010, April 12 g (in Russian). <i>Interfaks</i>. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.interfax.ru">www.interfax.ru/interview/131938</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en030"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en030">30</a></span> Ukaz Prezidenta RF ot 25 maya 2011 g. N 678 “O sozdanii Fonda podderzhki i zashchity prav sootechestvennikov, prozhivayushchikh za rubezhom” (In Russian). Retrieved from <a href="https://base.garant.ru">https://base.garant.ru/12186106/</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en031"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en031">31</a></span> Foundation for the Support and Protection of the Rights of Compatriots Living Abroad website (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://pravfond.ru">http://pravfond.ru/?module=pages&action=view&id=1</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en032"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en032">32</a></span> RUDN University website. Retrieved from <a href="http://eng.rudn.ru">http://eng.rudn.ru/</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en033"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en033">33</a></span> Kontseptsiya eksporta obrazovatel’nykh uslug Rossiyskoy Federatsii na period 2011 2020 gg (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="http://vi.russia.edu.ru">http://vi.russia.edu.ru/news/discus/concept/3783</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en034"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en034">34</a></span> Strategiya 24. Natsional’nyy proyekt “Obrazovaniye” (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="https://strategy24.ru">https://strategy24.ru/rf/education/projects/natsionalnyy-proekt-obrazovanie</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en035"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en035">35</a></span> UNESCO. <i>Education</i>. Retrieved from <a href="http://data.uis.unesco.org">http://data.uis.unesco.org/index.aspx?queryid=169#</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en036"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en036">36</a></span> RIA Novosti news agency (in Russian). Retrieved from <a href="https://na.ria.ru">https://na.ria.ru/20190514/1553468787.html</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en037"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en037">37</a></span> Trianon Dialogue website (in French). Retrieved from <a href="https://dialogue-trianon.fr">https://dialogue-trianon.fr/</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_2digit" id="_15044-4038_chp003_en038"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp003_en038">38</a></span> Ketchum Moscow website. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.ketchum.com">www.ketchum.com/moscow/</a></div>
</aside>
</section>
</article>
</body>
</html>