<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" dir="ltr">
<head>
<title>4 Russian studies of public diplomacy in the 2000s</title>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/mathml.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<article id="ch04" epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<h1 class="chap" epub:type="title" id="_15044-4038_ch004"><a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch004"><span id="p27" aria-label="27" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>4</a> <a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch004"><span id="p27_2"/>Russian studies of public diplomacy in the 2000s</a></h1>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">The intensification of practical activities in the field of public diplomacy in Russia has led to an increase in scientific publications in this area. Public diplomacy has become one of the topics discussed in Russian international studies in scientific articles and monographs, as well as in educational literature [see, e.g., Kubyshkin &amp; Tsvetkova, 2013]. Studies on public diplomacy are conducted not only in Moscow and St. Petersburg, but also in many other cities of Russia, in particular in Vladivostok, Nizhny Novgorod, Yekaterinburg, Irkutsk, and other cities.</p>
<p class="text_indent">There are three large groups in Russian studies of public diplomacy. The first group of studies is related to the theoretical aspects of public diplomacy problems. The second group includes studies of public diplomacy of various states and international organizations. This is probably the most numerous group of studies. The third group includes works on various areas of modern public diplomacy.</p>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch004_001"><span id="p27_1"/>Theoretical research of public diplomacy in Russia</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">Theoretical studies of public diplomacy in Russia constitute a smaller part in comparison with other issues. However, this is typical not only for Russia, but also for many other states. A number of areas are also distinguished in Russian theoretical studies of the problems of public diplomacy. First of all, the issues of the relationship between public diplomacy and soft power are discussed. In most cases, Russian scholars follow Nye [2008], and Melissen [2005, p. 5], as well as many other researchers who consider public diplomacy as a key instrument of soft power. Therefore, in theoretical terms, rather than analyzing public diplomacy as a tool of soft power, it is often the soft power itself that is analyzed. However, in the Russian academic literature, the concept of soft power has not only polysemy but also <span id="p28" aria-label="28" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>various translations, which reflects the understanding of this phenomenon: for example, soft power is translated as domination (<i>vlast</i>), flexible power (<i>gibkaya sila</i>), and others [Neymark, 2016].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Today in Russia there are many interpretations of soft power. Parshin writes that soft power is understood in Russia in two ways. According to the first understanding, soft power is an instrument or a technology, mainly communicative, which involves potentially less damage to the recipient in comparison with other (“hard”) tools (technologies). The second understanding of soft power is that it is considered as the potential of <span id="p28_8"/>influence of some actor, due to its attractiveness and one’s <span id="p28_5"/>desire to join in its values [Parshin, 2014].</p>
<p class="text_indent">However, the most common understanding of soft power in Russia until recently is any nonmilitary methods of influencing the opposite side, that is, what Parshin called an “instrument” or “technology”. With this approach, economic and <span id="p28_11"/>political <span id="p28_2"/>coercion, as well as other types of coercion, come under the definition of soft power, which contradicts the concept of Nye. Russian researchers sometime assume that coercion can only be military or economic. Vapler, Gronskaya, and their colleagues write that soft power is a state’s ability to influence using means other than military and <span id="p28_7"/>economic coercion [Vapler et al., 2010]. In other words, any other type of coercion, according to this approach, falls into the category of soft power.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Moreover, in some cases, economic coercion is also seen as soft power. For example, Kasyuk sees soft power in the application of the US <span id="p28_13"/>sanctions policy against Russia. He proceeds from the premise that soft power can be treated in different ways: on the one hand, as an opportunity to establish a dialogue <span id="p28_6"/>of <span id="p28_9"/>mutual understanding and <span id="p28_4"/>cooperation, and on the other, as a lever of pressure and coercion [Kasyuk, 2018, p. 53]. In other words, the specifics of soft power are simply ignored. True, such statements are still rarely found in the Russian <span id="p28_1"/>academic literature today. However, many researchers proceed from a realistic theory and prefer not to use the concept of soft power at all.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Russian scientists who see the meaning in using the concept of soft power are trying to identify its features, as well as the difference from other means of influence, the perception of soft power by the recipient, and so on. For example, Zevelev and Troitskiy write that Russia was disappointed by the West’s lack of desire for full cooperation with Russia in the late 1990s and early 2000s. This led to the minimization of Russia’s susceptibility to the “soft” influence of the United States [Zevelev &amp; Troitskiy, 2006].</p>
<p class="text_indent">It should be noted that, starting around the 2010s, Russian scientific discourse hasincreasingly included an understanding of exactly what Nye defined as soft power, that is, attractiveness [see, e.g., Panova, 2010]. But attractiveness is not always analyzed in research. It is often simply <span id="p29" aria-label="29" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>overlooked. It was shown that, depending on whether a researcher works within the framework of a realistic approach, on the one hand, or a neoliberal and <span id="p28_3"/>constructivist approach, on the other, he or she either identifies soft power and propaganda (realistic approach) or distinguishes them (neoliberal and constructivist approach) [Lebedeva, 2017a]. <span id="p29_10"/>Realism is focused primarily on the realization of the state’s own interests, as well as manifestations of <span id="p29_2"/>competition and <span id="p29_11"/>rivalry in the international arena. The interests of other actors are not the focus of attention in this case, which means there is no particular need to shape attractiveness. Therefore, there is not much difference between propaganda and soft power. With this approach, the understanding of the concept is often reduced to <span id="p29_4"/>lobbying, propaganda, and a form of information cover for <span id="p29_3"/>interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states [Kharkevich, 2014]. Realists practically do not use the concept of soft power or understand it as any non-forceful influence. In the case of <span id="p28_10"/>neoliberalism and constructivism, the situation is the opposite, since the interests of the other side must be taken into account in <span id="p29_8"/>policy-making.</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p29_12"/>Russian researchers are also attempting to operationalize the concept of soft power, highlighting various components in it [Pestsov &amp; Bobylo, 2015]. And researchers from <span id="p29_13"/>Yekaterinburg under the leadership of Rusakova set their task, based on quantitative indicators, as determining rating indicators of soft power. For example, Russia in the early 2010s, according to the scholars, took 27th place among the 40 countries they analyzed [<i>Soft Power</i> … , 2014].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In theoretical terms, a rather large discussion in Russia arose regarding the concepts of “public <span id="p29_1"/>diplomacy” (“<i>publichnaya diplomatiya</i>”), “<span id="p29_7"/>people’s diplomacy” (“<i>narodnaya diplomatiya</i>”), and “citizen’s diplomacy” (“<i>obshchestvennaya diplomatiya</i>”). There is no actual difference between the last two terms. The concept of people’s diplomacy was more typical for the Soviet period, and the concepts of public diplomacy and citizen’s diplomacy are more often used today. However, since several approaches to understanding the essence of public diplomacy have emerged in Russian studies, there are often differences between public diplomacy on the one hand and people’s diplomacy and citizen’s diplomacy on the other hand, depending on the context.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The first approach is that public diplomacy is identified with the activities of nongovernmental actors and is synonymous with citizen’s diplomacy, as well as people’s diplomacy [see, e.g., Naumov, 2017; Fedoreyeva, 2017; Mukhametov, 2014; Evdokimov, 2011]. This approach actually reduces the analysis to the activities of NGOs in the international arena and leads to frequent ignoring of the fact that the channels of public diplomacy can be both state and non-state. In other words, the state can act directly through its <span id="p29_6"/>official representatives or indirectly through non-state actors.</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p30" aria-label="30" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>The second approach assumes a broader understanding of public diplomacy, namely, as the activity of state and non-state actors [Dolinskiy, 2012]. Zonova adheres to a similar position, saying that in <span id="p30_13"/><span id="p30_14"/>Russian foreign policy vocabulary there are two terms with reference to diplomacy: public diplomacy and people’s diplomacy. Zonova writes that in Russia, it is called people’s diplomacy when speaking about diplomacy of NGOs [Zonova, 2012].</p>
<p class="text_indent">There is also a largely politicized understanding of the differences between public diplomacy and public diplomacy. Thus, public diplomacy is defined as a type of <span id="p30_15"/>Western European <span id="p30_7"/>international cooperation using various means with the aim of “implanting” a certain way of life, which coincides with the concept of propaganda. Public diplomacy in its Russian version represents the cooperation of all forces of civil society for the establishment of an <span id="p30_4"/>internal Russian dialogue, as well as the establishment of <span id="p30_3"/>close ties and <span id="p30_9"/>mutual understanding with representatives of <span id="p30_6"/>foreign governments and the foreign public [Parubochnaya &amp; Piskunov, 2018]. However, it should be noted that this point of view is not common in Russian studies of public diplomacy.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The term people’s diplomacy has been used increasingly in recent years. At the same time, the public diplomacy of Russian officials is almost out of the research focus of Russian scholars.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Another of the research topics discussed is how much public diplomacy can be identified with the brand of the state, the idea of which is being developed by Anholt [2007]. This problem is not specific to Russia. It is also widely discussed by researchers from other countries. However, the idea of a state brand is now becoming popular in Russia. In a number of Russian works, branding is understood very broadly – as creating the image of the state. Thus, Semedov and Kurbatova, based on the views of Anholt, write that the state brand includes a number of components (tourism, export, investment and migration, culture and heritage, as well as management), significantly expands the list of these components, and introduces education, science, and NGOs [Semedov &amp; Kurbatova, 2020]. At the same time, a number of Russian researchers working in the field of <span id="p30_8"/>international relations tend to believe that it is not necessary to transfer concepts from the field of management to international relations. One of the most important differences between creating a brand and using public diplomacy is that public diplomacy necessarily involves dialogue [Zonova, 2012; Lebedeva, 2017a]. Neymark, criticizing the idea of using the concept of <span id="p30_10"/>national branding instead of soft power or its implementation through public diplomacy, points out that the brand is aimed at being the first among similar products on the market, while soft power and public diplomacy are important such concepts as reputation [Neymark, 2017].</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p31" aria-label="31" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>This raises another problem that is almost not discussed in Russian <span id="p31_1"/>academic literature. Its essence is whether all actions in the international arena that meet the signs of soft power can be considered as public diplomacy. This question arises especially clearly in the economic sphere. If, regarding the formation of national branding, most Russian researchers in the field of international relations agree that it should not replace the concept of public diplomacy (or, at least, these two concepts require a clear distinction), then with <span id="p31_8"/>economic (or business) diplomacy and <span id="p31_7"/>economic <span id="p31_5"/>cooperation, as well as <span id="p31_6"/>development diplomacy, the situation is more complicated. Nye noted that non-state actors have soft power [2004b]. Business is no exception. Permyakova and Skryagina indicate that <span id="p31_13"/>social responsibility is a soft power of <span id="p31_10"/>multinational corporations [2013]. Based on the presence of soft power in business <span id="p31_3"/>structures, a number of researchers conclude that business structures are included in public diplomacy. Thus, Tkachenko believes that development diplomacy is part of public diplomacy, since it implements its goals by using soft power resources, primarily economic, financial, and intellectual [Tkachenko, 2020]. Velikaya defines the economic direction of Russian public diplomacy as “creating conditions for attracting foreign investors and promoting Russian brands abroad” [2019, p. 502]. However, this definition “loses” the political component of public diplomacy. At the same time, an important condition for the economic direction of <span id="p31_12"/>public policy is the implementation of the political goals of the state by business structures. Therefore, a more precise formulation was proposed by Bykov and Solntsev, who define the essence of business diplomacy as “a tool for achieving diplomatic results not through diplomatic means, but through execution of <span id="p31_4"/>commercial agreements” [2020, p. 185], although the line here is very thin. In general, Russian business diplomacy as part of public diplomacy is to meet the criterion, which requires focus on the implementation of Russia’s foreign policy goals.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The next area of research is not related to the definition of <span id="p31_14"/>public diplomacy and people’s diplomacy or to issues of national branding but to how independent non-state actors are implementing their actions in the international arena. It seems that non-state actors are in many cases quite independent and can themselves form the soft power of the country, as well as their own. Otherwise, they wouldn’t be actors. At the same time, the state can provide them with direct assistance, or it can distance itself from them, and vice versa. They can assist the state in implementing soft power.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Another aspect is related to the goals of public diplomacy: is public diplomacy a means of realizing the goals of the state through non-state actors, or the goal of public diplomacy is to strengthen mutual understanding between the peoples of different states [Lukin 2013]. Apparently, both <span id="p32" aria-label="32" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>models are realized in reality. The state influences the societies of other countries through non-state structures. But interaction, <span id="p32_13"/>mutual understanding, and dialogue <span id="p32_4"/>between societies of different states is also carried out through public <span id="p32_11"/>diplomacy.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Finally, one more area of research on public diplomacy in Russia can stand out. It is not widespread, and the first studies are just beginning. The essence of this area is to identify the side effects of <span id="p32_16"/>public diplomacy and soft power that are negative, but not initially obvious. The important point here is that some side effects were not predicted when using public diplomacy. And this distinguishes this area from a large number of works in which, in fact, public diplomacy is replaced by propaganda, and <span id="p32_2"/>criticism of its use is given. Within the framework of this newly emerging direction in Russian studies, it is noted that in order to avoid negative consequences in the use of the instrument of public diplomacy, it is necessary to form not only some positive features of the state, but also its integral image. In addition, it is important to foresee possible negative side effects of the use of soft power and public diplomacy [Lebedeva, Rustamova, &amp; Sharko 2016]. It should be emphasized that this is not about the deliberate use of public diplomacy with negative consequences for the state in relation to which it is applied (i.e., some kind of sharp power), but about the side effects of creating an attractive image, which was not calculated in advance. For example, the creation of a positive image by the state in order to attract <span id="p32_12"/>migrants can have a negative effect if they flow in too much.</p>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch004_002">Russian studies of public diplomacy <span id="p32_18"/>of various states and international organizations</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">Russian researchers publish numerous works that study the approaches, institutions, and mechanisms of the public diplomacy of various states.</p>
<p class="text_indent">First, the public diplomacy of Russia is analyzed. Burlinova, Ivanchenko, and Gribkova [2018] point to the following areas of public diplomacy, although it is noted that not all of them are equally implemented by Russia:</p>
<ul class="bullet">
<li>Working with <span id="p32_1"/>compatriots</li>
<li>Public diplomacy to support the historical truth and countering falsification of history in the <span id="p32_9"/>international public space</li>
<li><span id="p32_10"/>International youth cooperation</li>
<li><span id="p32_15"/>Parliamentary diplomacy</li>
<li><span id="p32_14"/><span id="p32_19"/>State-supported NGOs and funds in the sphere of public diplomacy</li>
<li>The Russian phenomenon of Facebook and <span id="p32_20"/>Twitter diplomacy</li>
<li>Formats of cultural and language diplomacy abroad</li>
</ul>
<p class="text_noindent">Sports, youth, science, education, and a number of other areas should be added to the list. As for the policy of preserving historical truth and the <span id="p33" aria-label="33" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>policy of co<span id="p33_14"/>untering falsification of history in the international public space, it is undoubtedly present in the policy of the Russian Federation. However, the question is how much is implemented by means of public diplomacy.</p>
<p class="text_indent">In practical terms, Russia’s public diplomacy is largely represented by cultural diplomacy, the development of <span id="p33_13"/>twinning ties, and <span id="p33_8"/>humanitarian cooperation [Velikaya, 2019]. The issues related to <span id="p33_5"/>compatriots are still the least studied, although they are currently receiving a lot of attention from various practically oriented state and non-state organizations, in particular <span id="p33_12"/>Rossotrudnichestvo.</p>
<p class="text_indent">A relatively new area in Russia is Russian public diplomacy in <span id="p33_9"/>international organizations. The research by Chepurina and Kuznetsov focuses on Russia’s public diplomacy in international organizations, in particular the UN. They show that Russian citizens work in the UN Secretariat as well as in UN peacekeeping missions; however, their numbers are significantly lower than those of the United States, <span id="p33_7"/>France, and Great Britain. The authors note that even Canada, whose financial contribution is comparable to Russia’s, has twice as many UN staff as Russia has. One of the problems with this situation is that working in the UN requires experience in working in intergovernmental organizations or NGOs. Chepurina and Kuznetsov see a solution to the problem, in particular in the development of the activities of Russian NGOs and, in general, in the more active participation of Russian people in NGOs [Chepurina &amp; Kuznetsov, 2020]. The peculiarity of this research is that Chepurina has worked for a long time in the structures of international organizations. Therefore, the included observation method is used to a certain extent in the study.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Since one of the most important channels for implementing public diplomacy is primarily through NGOs, they are also the focus of Russian researchers. Russian NGOs developed after the disintegration of the Soviet Union. Despite the fact that a significant number of active NGOs working in the field of public diplomacy are government organized (or operated), a number of Russian NGOs operate largely independently. E. Stetsko, a researcher from St. Petersburg, sees a direct link between public diplomacy carried out by NGOs and the development of civil society in Russia. E. Stetsko proceeds proceeds from the fact that the activities of NGOs will be more effective in the conditions of active civil society [Stetsko, 2020]. Currently, only a few Russian NGOs operate abroad, providing humanitarian and <span id="p33_10"/>medical assistance and participating in small development projects. Chepurina and Kuznetsov write, “only 281 Russian NGOs have a consultative status with The United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) compared to the 409 NGOs from <span id="p33_1"/>Belgium, 866 from France, and 1057 from <span id="p33_2"/>Brazil” [Chepurina &amp; Kuznetsov, 2020: 175
].</p>
<p class="text_indent">The academic literature also deals with other issues of Russian public diplomacy, in particular those related to the problem of its organization in the country. One such question is how well public diplomacy should be <span id="p34" aria-label="34" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>coordinated. Thus, Dolinskiy believes that Russia should have a center for coordinating the public diplomacy activities of different actors [D2013a]. Burlinova and her colleagues hold a similar position. They write that in the Russian context, public diplomacy is not perceived as a system of institutions but is defined as one of the areas of work along with cultural and <span id="p34_5"/>humanitarian cooperation, public diplomacy, and strategic communications. The key problem of Russian public diplomacy is the lack of system and <span id="p34_3"/>coordination in the work of various departments and organizations. In Russia, all interaction between the Foreign Ministry and the public sector is limited to the activities of a single department (Department for Relations with the Subjects of the Federation, Parliament and Public Organizations), and active work with the local public in the host countries is carried out if there is a desire and activity of responsible diplomats [Burlinova, Vasilenko, Ivanchenko, &amp; Shakirov, 2020].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Burlinova identifies eight problems in the organization of Russian public diplomacy. The first problem is the lack of system and coordination in the work of various departments and organizations due to the spontaneity of the development of public diplomacy in Russia. The second problem is that officials do not understand the essence of public diplomacy and how it should work. The third is the lack of a systemic vision of work in the field of soft power. Burlinova believes that a legally binding document should be developed indicating the basic rules of behavior, actors, and their interaction. The fourth is the problem of funding, primarily related to the lack of grants. The fifth is peculiarities of Russian NGOs, which, in her opinion, like the Russian bureaucracy, were not ready to work in the field of public diplomacy and do not understand its essence. As a continuation of this, a sixth problem is the lack of targeted training in the field of public diplomacy. The seventh is that almost no foreign NGOs are involved in Russian public diplomacy. Finally, the eighth problem is the need at the state level to change the <span id="p34_1"/>attitude toward public diplomacy [Burlinova, 2014].</p>
<p class="text_indent">These examples show a clear desire to centralize Russian public diplomacy. How much this can be done, and most importantly how effective the <span id="p34_2"/>centralization would be, remains in question. So, there is another point of view. Since modern relations, including in the field of public diplomacy, are increasingly acquiring network formats [Grebenkina, 2017], the question arises of how much coordination of network structures is possible. Apparently, in the modern world it will be increasingly difficult to strictly regulate public diplomacy, especially because of the numerous actors involved in it who use information and communication technologies widely. This does not mean, however, that there is no need at all for some unified basis for Russian public diplomacy.</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p35" aria-label="35" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>It should certainly be unified in terms of organization, <span id="p35_11"/>funding, and defining the main directions, forms, and methods. However, such a framework should be <span id="p35_10"/>feedback based and largely <span id="p35_14"/>self-tuning.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Another problem, which also partly relates to the issue of the <span id="p35_4"/>coordination, is associated with Russian public <span id="p35_17"/>diplomacy’s practice of <span id="p35_7"/>educational <span id="p35_8"/>exchange programs. They allow participants to gain new knowledge, competencies, and experience and to establish new connections. At the same time, as Dolinskiy notes, in Russia it is difficult to say which agency has the resources and political mandate to assess the effectiveness of educational exchange programs. Dolinskiy writes, “in general, one can state the presence of a certain gap between existing international best practices and Russian experience” [2014, p. 60].</p>
<p class="text_indent">A significant vector of Russian public diplomacy is directed to the <span id="p35_3"/>CIS states. Accordingly, this issue is the subject of research, which analyzes the activity of Russia as an initiator of activities in the following areas: (1) cultural diplomacy; (2) youth diplomacy; (3) education; (4) sports <span id="p35_15"/>and tourism; (5) <span id="p35_13"/>medicine and science; and (6) cooperation in the field of information. It is noted, in particular, that various types of activity in the framework of public diplomacy involve the participation of representatives of not only capital cities, but also small localities [Borishpolets, 2017].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In the post-Soviet space, interest for Russian researchers lies, in particular, in the states of <span id="p35_1"/>Central Asia. Central Asia is a special region for Russia. First of all, this region has long-standing ties with Russia in many areas, including economic, scientific, technical, and educational. The roots of these ties go deep into the historical period. The Russian language has spread throughout Central Asia, which provides good opportunities for using public diplomacy. Finally, the region, which is important from a geopolitical point of view and has large mineral resources, is of great interest to many countries. Russians pay more attention to the <span id="p35_6"/>Russian language and culture, while the United States pays more attention to the use of new technologies and the European Union countries pay more attention to <span id="p35_12"/>human rights and <span id="p35_9"/>environmental issues [Lebedeva, 2018].</p>
<p class="text_indent">A relatively small number of comparative studies on the public diplomacy of foreign countries and the soft power of Russia and various other states are presented in Russia. Among these studies, we should mention the article by Kazarinova, which analyzes the use of soft power by the United States, the countries of the European Union, <span id="p35_2"/>China, and India. Thus, the author notes that the United States primarily focuses on the implementation of its soft power on issues of education and popular culture, while the EU has the attractive power of its <span id="p35_16"/>supranational structures. China focuses on culture and sports in public diplomacy, while India focuses on sports, religion, and cinema [Kazarinova, 2011].</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p36" aria-label="36" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Another study conducted by Velikaya compares Russian and US public diplomacy. The author notes that US public diplomacy in Russia uses methods and means that were typical for it in the post-Soviet space im<span id="p36_15"/>mediately after the end of the <span id="p36_3"/>Cold War. At that time, the United States was actively involved in the formation of Russian <span id="p36_21"/>political institutions. Today, such activity is perceived in Russia as <span id="p36_11"/>interference in internal affairs. In turn, Russian public diplomacy in the United States is limited to domestic American issues. Russia is more interested in the implementation of public diplomacy in those countries that together with it are included in integration associations. In other words, the vectors of the direction of public diplomacy of the two countries are different [Velikaya, 2019].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Along with the “classical” aspects of public diplomacy, in recent years attention has been paid to “peripheral” issues. Tabarintseva-Romanova compares the use of <span id="p36_5"/>culinary diplomacy in <span id="p36_12"/>Italy and Russia. Unlike Italy, in Russia the gastronomic theme is generally outside the political and <span id="p36_8"/>diplomatic discourse; moreover, it does not appear in the <span id="p36_14"/>mass media [Tabarintseva-Romanova, 2020]. It is obvious that culinary diplomacy has great prospects in Russia.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The Baltic states are a difficult region for the implementation of Russian public diplomacy. On the one hand, a large number of the Russian-speaking population live in this region; on the other, these states have entered <span id="p36_17"/>NATO and, in general, their policy is far from being pro-Russian. However, despite the tense relations with the Baltic states, in particular with <span id="p36_13"/>Lithuania, there are groups of people in both countries who are interested in developing a <span id="p36_4"/><span id="p36_7"/>constructive dialogue even in the present conditions. At the same time, as Ivanova writes, the <span id="p36_19"/>official media channels of the two countries often form negative images of each other. In these conditions, <span id="p36_10"/>informal communication channels within the framework of public diplomacy become valuable, which still allow for an effective dialogue [Ivanova, 2015].</p>
<p class="text_indent">A significant part of Russian research is devoted to the analysis of public diplomacy of the world’s leading states. The issues of organizing and implementing public diplomacy in the United States are studied quite carefully. There are several reasons for this. First, the United States is the country where the term “public diplomacy” originated and where public diplomacy is widely studied. Second, it is obvious that the United States has the greatest influence on <span id="p36_16"/>modern <span id="p36_25"/>world politics, and in this sense, how this is done is undoubtedly of interest to Russia.</p>
<p class="text_indent">One of the leading Russian researchers of US public diplomacy is Tsvetkova, professor at <span id="p36_23"/>St. Petersburg University. She distinguishes two periods in US <span id="p36_24"/>foreign policy. In the period 2009–2012, US public diplomacy was guided by Nye’s concept of soft power. The United States pursued a policy of “<span id="p36_1"/>attracting-engaging” a foreign target audience in relation to the <span id="p37" aria-label="37" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>values and culture of the United States. The practical implementation of this approach was reflected in the development of US digital diplomacy, in various US public diplomacy programs in the <span id="p37_12"/>Middle East, as well as in the desire of the <span id="p37_13"/>Obama administration to establish cooperation with some states. However, in the next period, which occurred in 2013–2015, there was a change in the principles of public diplomacy. The United States began to focus on strategic communication, which, according to Tsvetkova, is associated with an aggravation of the international situation in the world. As a result, this change of principles brought US public diplomacy closer to propaganda [Tsvetkova, 2015].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In Tsvetkova’s study, first, the fact that the classical definition of public diplomacy implies the influence of the state on the society of other countries is clearly traced. And this impact can be different. Second, there is no clear boundary between <span id="p37_1"/>soft power and hard power in the implementation of public diplomacy. Third, the reorientation of public diplomacy towards strategic communication brings it closer to propaganda. It can be assumed that in conditions of aggravation of relations between states, the idea of attractiveness in interaction will fade into the background. The parties in these conditions are more oriented towards strategic communication as a means of providing quick results.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Analyzing US public diplomacy with regard to Russia, Tsvetkova also notes that there has been a shift that affects the strengthening of American activity on the Russian <span id="p37_10"/>Internet [Tsvetkova, 2012].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Among the countries of the European Union, Russian researchers pay attention, first of all, to countries such as <span id="p37_7"/>Germany, <span id="p37_6"/>France, and (recently released from the EU) <span id="p37_8"/>Great Britain. It is noted that all these countries are characterized, first, by attention to the formation of a positive image of their country abroad [see, e.g., Bezrukova, 2014], and second, by great attention to issues of culture and language [see, e.g., Lan’shina, 2015]. It is shown that, for example, France demonstrates the ability to achieve results by forming the country’s international image as a peacemaker, which affirms the <span id="p37_18"/>universal values of democracy and takes into account the traditions of each country with respect to which public diplomacy is conducted [Nagornov, 2014].</p>
<p class="text_indent">As for Germany, as noted by Kuzina, the concept of public diplomacy as well as the concept of soft power is still being introduced there with caution. Nevertheless, the main areas of German public diplomacy are culture and language <span id="p37_11"/>promotion; science <span id="p37_16"/>and education; economic relations; and <span id="p37_9"/>international development [Kuzina, 2020]. At the same time, Germany has developed a unique system for implementing the policy of soft power. Russian researchers write that Germany attaches great importance to education as a tool of soft power. Antyukhova characterizes the educational <span id="p38" aria-label="38" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>component of <span id="p38_21"/>Germany’s soft power in the following way: (1) in Germany, there is a well-planned <span id="p38_10"/>educational strategy based on the <span id="p38_17"/>promotion of German interests in other countries and regions under the auspices of various NGOs; (2) since the beginning of the 1990s, after the accelerated education reform, which was designed to unite the eastern and western education systems of Germany, an extensive network of management and implementation of educational programs of various levels on an international scale was created in Germany; (3) Germany absolutely rightly chose the direction of spreading its influence through education. Among the key regions, <span id="p38_9"/>Eastern Europe should be highlighted here, which since the beginning of the 1990s actively reoriented towards the West and its values; as well as <span id="p38_18"/>Latin America, where Germany is a serious alternative to <span id="p38_1"/>American dominance [Antyukhova, 2019].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Non-state actors, including foundations close to political parties, dominate in public diplomacy. And the main sources of financing the activities of these organizations are the federal and <span id="p38_23"/>regional budgets, their own <span id="p38_15"/>incomes, <span id="p38_19"/>membership fees, and <span id="p38_8"/>donations [Lan’shina, 2014]. An important feature of <span id="p38_7"/>soft power and, accordingly, German public diplomacy is that, despite significant <span id="p38_27"/>state <span id="p38_13"/>funding, they remain nongovernmental in nature [Rustamova, 2016].</p>
<p class="text_indent">The experience of <span id="p38_2"/>British public diplomacy is also in the focus of <span id="p38_24"/>Russian scholars. Shelepov names the following areas of public diplomacy in the UK: culture and language promotion; <span id="p38_5"/><span id="p38_25"/>cooperation in education, scientific, technical, and <span id="p38_16"/>innovative cooperation; development of business <span id="p38_3"/>relations; development of public diplomacy (youth exchanges, NGO activities); promotion of international development; and others. Based on the analysis, the author concludes that the combination of various areas of international cultural and <span id="p38_14"/>humanitarian cooperation contributes to the achievement of the main goal of the soft power policy of Great Britain – ensuring influence and successful promotion of <span id="p38_20"/>national values abroad [Shelepov, 2014].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Russian scholars pay attention to the public diplomacy of <span id="p38_4"/>China as a state that is rapidly increasing its influence in the international arena. In Russia, China’s public diplomacy is usually linked to the soft power of this state. It was noted that although the Chinese leadership pays great attention to public diplomacy, the resources for its implementation are insufficient, particularly because of the state’s opaque political system [Krivokhizh, 2012]. Estimates in other Russian studies of China’s public diplomacy are less critical. Usually the focus is on the strengths of Chinese public diplomacy, one of which is its mass character [Evdokimov, 2011].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Russian researchers draw attention to the fact that in the 20th century, China, like <span id="p38_11"/>European countries, paid special attention to culture as a significant element of soft power and public diplomacy [Sveshnikov, 2001]. In <span id="p39" aria-label="39" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>addition to the culture and popularization of the Chinese language, which is largely carried out through <span id="p39_3"/>Confucius centers located in various parts of the world, the PRC pays great attention to providing development assistance (programs in education, health, humanitarian, and economic assistance) in <span id="p39_1"/>Africa and <span id="p39_11"/>Latin America, that is, primarily where China has economic interests (Kazarinova, 2011).</p>
<p class="text_indent">The structures involved in China’s public diplomacy and its funding sources are considered as well [see, e.g., Bodrova, 2014]. The issue of public diplomacy of the PRC is often raised at various scientific conferences in Russia.</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p39_14"/>Russian scholars analyze not only public diplomacy towards the countries of <span id="p39_2"/>Central Asia, but also the public diplomacy of these countries themselves. Bakhriev identifies the following parameters that may be promising for implementing soft power and public diplomacy in <span id="p39_16"/>Tajikistan. First, in his opinion, is the historical and <span id="p39_4"/>cultural heritage of Tajikistan. Among the diversity of cultural heritage, two objects (Sarazm and Tajik National Park) are included on the <span id="p39_18"/>UNESCO World Heritage List. Bakhriev’s second parameter is the tourist attractiveness of Tajikistan. At the same time, he emphasizes that <span id="p39_17"/>tourism is not only an item of state revenue, but also a soft power. The third parameter is international initiatives with an emphasis on <span id="p39_19"/>water diplomacy. Bakhriev stresses that Tajikistan has some successes in the field of water diplomacy (Tajikistan’s initiatives for cooperation in the region in the field of water resources) and these successes should be consolidated. Finally, the last parameter is the need to rely on the Tajik diaspora abroad [Bakhriev, 2018].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In recent years, Iran has also paid great attention to public diplomacy regarding Central Asia. Iran has a cultural and <span id="p39_13"/>religious resource in this region. The political and ideological features of the Central Asian states to some extent limited Iran’s public diplomacy in this region. However, dialogue between Iran and Central Asian states is improving [Dzhabarri Nasir, 2019].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Iran’s activity in the field of public diplomacy encourages scholars in Russia to be more attentive to the public diplomacy of this state. As Bakhriev and Jabbari write, the public diplomacy of the Islamic Republic of Iran is focused on promoting the heritage of <span id="p39_12"/>Persian culture, language, and religion as a tool for fighting against Western values. The authors note that (1) Iran has a good cultural and civilizational potential; (2) Iran positions itself as the defender of all oppressed peoples; (3) public diplomacy is becoming one of the key tools that has moved from the theoretical research plane to the level of practice, which is reflected in the establishment of the Iranian <span id="p39_7"/>Foreign Ministry’s Center for Public and Media Diplomacy; (4) public diplomacy becomes the channel through which the ideas of the Islamic <span id="p40" aria-label="40" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>revolution spread; (5) <span id="p40_8"/>Iran attaches great importance to cultural diplomacy; (6) Iran pays great attention to the information and technical aspects of public diplomacy, <span id="p40_12"/>multilingual channels are created, and communication with a foreign audience is carried out, including through <span id="p40_19"/>social networks; and (7) public diplomacy occupies one of the most important places in Iran’s foreign policy [Bakhriev &amp; Jabbari, 2017].</p>
<p class="text_indent">The <span id="p40_11"/>Middle East is one of the most difficult regions in the world, where the interests of many states intersect. For a long historical period, Russia has been involved in the Middle East’s problems. The countries of the area are highly diverse; therefore, public diplomacy towards these countries is different. Nevertheless, <span id="p40_16"/>Rossotrudnichestvo is a key actor in the region. An important role in the region is played by the Russian Orthodox Church, whose activities have a long tradition there. Finally, the <span id="p40_17"/>Russian Humanitarian Mission is operating in the Middle East. It implements various programs related to education, medical care, and so on [Morozov &amp; Simons, 2020].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In addition to these countries, Russian researchers analyze the public diplomacy of other states. For example, it is noted that Turkey’s public diplomacy developed with the coming to power of the <span id="p40_9"/>Justice and Development Party. However, starting in 2011, soft power politics and public diplomacy began to falter. Turkey, due to external and internal reasons, began to change its policy to a tougher one. Nevertheless, public diplomacy continues to be used in Turkish foreign policy, including with regard to <span id="p40_6"/>Georgia. Turkey perceives Georgia as a geographically important country that acts as a corridor between Turkey and the Turkic-speaking Muslim countries of Central Asia and the <span id="p40_21"/>South Caucasus [Aleksanyan, 2018]. Obviously, Turkey’s public diplomacy is not limited only to these regions. Turkey is largely interested in spreading the idea of <span id="p40_14"/>neo-Ottomanism and in this regard pays attention to the countries of the Middle East. Turkey widely uses cinema as a means of public diplomacy [Zubkova, 2015].</p>
<p class="text_indent">The publications of Russian authors on public diplomacy of various countries, of course, are not limited by the listed states. The public diplomacy of many other states is being studied, including that of <span id="p40_15"/>Norway [Shikhova, 2019], <span id="p40_1"/>Armenia, and other <span id="p40_4"/>Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) states. It is emphasized that of all the EAEU countries, Russia and <span id="p40_10"/>Kazakhstan are most actively using the instrument of public diplomacy [Borishpolets, 2015].</p>
<p class="text_indent">If public diplomacy of states is a certain obvious phenomenon, the situation with <span id="p40_7"/>international organizations, associations, and so on is more complicated. At the same time, taking into account the fact that Melissen pointed out the presence of public diplomacy in international organizations [2005], Russian researchers began to turn to the analysis of public diplomacy of various <span id="p40_22"/>supranational structures. Studies of public diplomacy <span id="p41" aria-label="41" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>of international organizations are few in Russia. Nevertheless, a number of Russian researchers turn to the analysis of public diplomacy of various supranational structures. Most research is devoted to the use of public diplomacy by <span id="p41_9"/>intergovernmental organizations and supranational associations, first in the post-Soviet space, and second in the largest international ones, such as NATO and the EU. It is emphasized that all supranational organizations and international organizations use public diplomacy to create the most positive and attractive image of themselves that they can. At the same time, some organizations, for example, the EU, declare public diplomacy in their official documents. For example, the idea of public diplomacy was reflected in a document of the <span id="p41_6"/>European Commission, which states,</p>
<aside title="quote6" epub:type="pullquote" role="doc-pullquote" class="quotes">
<p class="text_noindent">public diplomacy deals with the influence of public sentiment. It seeks to promote the interests of the EU by understanding, informing and influencing. This means a clear explanation of the goals, policies and activities of the EU and promoting understanding of these goals through dialogue with individuals, groups, institutions and the media.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp004_en001" id="R_15044-4038_chp004_en001" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>1</sup></a></p>
</aside>
<p class="text_indent">Zonova, considering EU public diplomacy, emphasizes that the coordination between the EU member states and the EU itself is a serious problem, since it is hardly possible at present to achieve “speaking with one voice” [2017
]. While Zonova focuses on the public diplomacy of the EU as a whole, Fominykh focuses on the problems of <span id="p41_7"/>exchange programs as one of the elements of public diplomacy of the EU [2018]. At the same time, the <span id="p41_11"/>EU’s soft power is viewed as an instrument of public diplomacy [Baykov, 2014].</p>
<p class="text_indent">NATO’s public diplomacy is also being studied in Russia. Russian researchers note that NATO actively uses the full range of means and methods of public diplomacy. At the same time, the policy of public diplomacy conducted by NATO is a fairly effective tool for achieving the goals set in the sphere of the bloc’s foreign policy [Antyukhova, 2017]. In contrast to NATO, public diplomacy in the <span id="p41_1"/>Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) is represented only in certain areas, although CSTO has considerable potential for using public diplomacy to prevent and resolve conflicts [Nikitina, 2017].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Perhaps the EAEU may have the most interesting opportunities in terms of public diplomacy in the post-Soviet space. The high level of integration of the EAEU countries in the past, the <span id="p41_10"/>spread of the Russian language in the territory of these states [Lebedeva, 2015b], and structural features of the EU-type construction allow the EAEU to use the principle of “unity in diversity”, emphasizing the ability of member countries to build a single economic space while maintaining its specifics.</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p42" aria-label="42" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>The public diplomacy of the Union State of Russia and <span id="p42_2"/>Belarus, as noted by Borishpolets, is distinguished by a large number of initiatives aimed at increasing the attractiveness of this association. Borishpolets identifies two vectors in the public diplomacy of the Union State of Russia and Belarus that complement each other. The first vector is more correlated with the actions of officials and leaders of partner countries, and the second with the practice of non-state actors, including public organizations, business communities, academia, and the media [Borishpolets, 2017b]. However, it should be noted that studies of how effective these actions were has not been carried out. It is also difficult to determine the further development of events and research in this area.</p>
<p class="text_indent">These examples show that soft power and public diplomacy of various countries and <span id="p42_13"/>supranational associations are studied quite intensively by <span id="p42_11"/>Russian scholars. The experience of various countries is discussed by Russian researchers. However, it is difficult to say how well it is taken into account in shaping the strategy of public diplomacy in Russia.</p>
<h2 class="H1" id="_15044-4038_h1_ch004_003">Russian studies in other areas of public diplomacy</h2>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">Among other areas of Russian public diplomacy, the main four should be highlighted:</p>
<ul class="bullet">
<li>Problems of using new technologies in public diplomacy</li>
<li>Issues of education and science in public diplomacy</li>
<li>Cultural and sports diplomacy</li>
<li>Public diplomacy of the media</li>
</ul>
<p class="text_noindent">In addition to these areas, Russian studies of public diplomacy cover issues of youth contacts, <span id="p42_7"/>parliamentary diplomacy, <span id="p42_10"/>religious diplomacy, and support for relations with <span id="p42_3"/>compatriots.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The use of new technologies has generated many new phenomena in <span id="p42_17"/>world politics, including in the field of public diplomacy. <span id="p42_12"/>Social networks, <span id="p42_16"/>websites of state and non-governmental organizations, <span id="p42_14"/>Twitter diplomacy, and so on have expanded the audience dramatically, and the possibility of influencing a foreign audience has been identified by such terms as <span id="p42_4"/>digital diplomacy, <span id="p42_15"/>Web 2.0 diplomacy, <span id="p42_5"/>e-diplomacy, and <span id="p42_6"/>Internet diplomacy [Tsvetkova, 2011]. Often these terms are used interchangeably and represent a means of influencing foreign audiences through digital technologies. At the same time, some researchers distinguish between these terms, noting that public diplomacy is only a part of digital diplomacy. For example, Permyakova includes in digital diplomacy the accumulation and analysis of an enormous amount of information that can be used in <span id="p42_8"/>political forecasts and <span id="p43" aria-label="43" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/><span id="p43_12"/>strategic planning; <span id="p43_2"/>consular activities such as processing and preparing visa documents and making direct contacts with citizens located abroad; and for embassies to gather information and communicate in case of emergency [2012]. It should be noted that, of course, not all diplomacy carried out with the help of digital technologies can be defined as public diplomacy. At the same time, public diplomacy does not necessarily need to use digital technologies, although in recent years it has increasingly resorted to digital solutions.</p>
<p class="text_indent">There is another important aspect of using digital technologies, Russian scholars pay attention to the positive and negative consequences of the use of digital technologies in public diplomacy. Thus, along with the opportunities that the <span id="p43_7"/>Internet offers for public diplomacy, the issue of information security is being discussed. Zinov’yeva writes that states view US digital diplomacy programs as an attempt to intervene in internal affairs, which threatens to violate their state sovereignty [2013]. Information impact is considered, for example, by Podberezkin as a mean to solve problems that previously were solved by military, economic, and other means [2016]. As a result, “public diplomacy has become an integral part of <span id="p43_8"/>network-centric hybrid warfare, in which the role of <span id="p43_6"/>informational influence on the enemy becomes crucial” [Podberezkin &amp; Zhukov, 2015]. With this understanding, public diplomacy is in fact identified with strategic communication. It should be noted that the concept of strategic communication, in contrast to the concepts of soft power and public diplomacy, is rarely used in Russia.</p>
<p class="text_indent">Tsvetkova highlights a number of consequences of modern digital diplomacy or Internet diplomacy. First, the explosive growth of digital technology has led to unpredictability and <span id="p43_3"/>cyber propaganda. The emotional and mobilization components of the impact on the external audience have intensified. Second, it increases the effectiveness of public diplomacy. Third, the role of digital diplomacy has grown in the United States during the <span id="p43_9"/>Obama administration [Tsvetkova, 2020]. Thus, in studies on the use of digital technologies in order to influence foreign audiences one way or another, two different types of influence are touched upon, which seldom differ. Digital technologies can be used in two types of impact on foreign audiences: (1) within the framework of public diplomacy (and then they must meet the criteria of public diplomacy) and (2) within the framework of the use of strategic communication and propaganda. It is clear that this distinction is not always easy to make. However, it is extremely important to understand the nature of the impact and determine what type of impact we are dealing with.</p>
<p class="text_indent">In situations of conflict or tense relations, means of tough informational influence on the opposite side are often used. As a result, there are information <span id="p43_5"/>wars [Manoylo, 2016], <span id="p43_4"/>hybrid wars [Panarin, 2016], and others, which are widely described in Russian scientific literature. Indeed, in the modern <span id="p44" aria-label="44" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>world, one can increasingly find this kind of activity. Moreover, almost all states use it. However, this type of influence on a foreign audience is not related to public diplomacy.</p>
<p class="text_indent">At the same time, in situations of conflict and crisis, public diplomacy is used to reduce tension, reconcile the parties, and so on. These can be educational <span id="p44_4"/>programs for various groups of the population with the aim of mastering the skills of negotiation and other procedures for nonviolent <span id="p44_1"/>conflict resolution, as well as seminars on finding solutions to conflict situations for people close to the political leaders of the opposing sides in the conflict [Lebedeva, 2015a].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Effective digital public diplomacy also can be used as a tool for post-conflict settlement [Zinov’yeva, 2017]. Zinov’yeva also drew attention to the fact that effective and innovative development of Russia needs new foreign projects in the digital sphere that are aimed at strengthening the soft power and the development of science, technology, and education. When implementing such projects, a state should take into account not only the threats, but also the opportunities offered by the electronic information environment. Such opportunities are provided by the already developed and promising tools of digital diplomacy, which should not remain the exclusive prerogative of the United States [Zinov’yeva, 2016]. Obviously, information and communication technologies will develop and be used both for propaganda and for public diplomacy.</p>
<p class="text_indent">At present, there is not a lot research in the field of cultural and sports diplomacy in Russia. The publications emphasize the growing role of culture in the modern world [see, e.g., Bogolyubova, 2013]. However, in general, these studies are largely descriptive, providing a chronicle of events in the cultural or sports fields. But textbooks on sports diplomacy have appeared. For example, Bogolyubova and Nikolayeva analyze the experience of Russia, the United States, China, France, and Great Britain in the field of sports diplomacy [2019].</p>
<p class="text_indent">Another positive point is that more and more studies are being published on sports and cultural diplomacy and their regional aspects, which go beyond just recording events [see, e.g., Shlapeko, 2017; Sedunov, 2017]. For example, Shlapeko considers external cross-border relations, including cultural ones, of such a Russian region as the Republic of Karelia. She notes that public diplomacy has undergone a regional shift. As a result, she concludes that against the background of complex modern relations between Russia and the EU, it is especially important to preserve the accumulated experience of international contacts between regions and use it for the development of territories [Shlapeko, 2017]. Indeed, often through culture, sports, and interaction in the fields of education and science, international contacts are maintained, which are interrupted in the political and economic spheres.</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p45" aria-label="45" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>In recent years, Russian researchers have quite intensively developed services of <span id="p45_8"/>higher education as a tool for public diplomacy. In Russia, numerous studies are published on the role of higher education in creating a positive image through public diplomacy. They note that the educational services market is becoming more and more important in the world. And this applies not only to commercial aspects, but also to political ones. Therefore, since the 2000s, Russia has been paying great attention to this issue. The research notes that Russia has great potential for soft power in the field of education. Russia strives to improve its international image by actively promoting educational services abroad and positioning itself as a leading educational center in the CIS [Lebedeva &amp; Fort, 2009]. It is noted that the provision <span id="p45_1"/>of educational services to foreign citizens ensures long-term relations between societies of different countries, as well as the loyalty of foreign citizens to the state in which they studied [Panova, 2011]. Torkunov analyzes the measures taken by the state in the field of higher education in order to improve the quality <span id="p45_2"/>of Russian education and its attractiveness and shows that in the modern world, the leadership of states is determined by the presence of a high level of education and the <span id="p45_6"/><span id="p45_9"/>promotion of language and culture [Torkunov, 2012].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In addition, various educational projects are considered and their effectiveness evaluated, both in Russia and abroad[see, e.g., Dolinskiy, 2014; Fominykh, 2008], and the resources that Russia uses abroad to implement educational policies are analyzed [Naumov &amp; Volk, 2018].</p>
<p class="text_indent">At present, special attention in Russian studies is paid to the possibilities of science in the framework of public diplomacy and the search with its help for solving international problems. Scientific diplomacy has its roots in the past. Thus, the successful experience of interaction between Soviet and Western scientists in order to resolve conflicts and prevent a nuclear catastrophe was during the <span id="p45_4"/>Cold War. Panchenko and Torkunov noted that researchers, by their nature of activity, are not concerned about the need to simplify reality.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp004_en002" id="R_15044-4038_chp004_en002" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>2</sup></a> Therefore, the interaction of researchers from different countries allows us to better understand a problem and outline ways to solve it. Despite the fact that in Russia in recent years there have been publications on the problems of scientific diplomacy, it is currently difficult to name examples of scientific diplomacy similar to those that occurred during the Cold War. And this seems strange at first glance, since scientific contacts have expanded in the world. Perhaps the reason is the strong ideologization and politicization of science in the modern world. In addition, Kharitonova and Prokhorenko point out that, unlike other countries, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have the position of a scientific adviser. There is also no national strategy for science diplomacy, and the existing foreign infrastructure for science diplomacy is not fully utilized [Kharitonova &amp; <span id="p46" aria-label="46" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Prokhorenko, 2020]. In general, the experience of other countries in the field of scientific diplomacy attracts the attention of Russian researchers [see, e.g., Shestopal &amp; Litvak, 2016].</p>
<p class="text_indent">At the same time, new formats have emerged in Russia that can be attributed to scientific diplomacy. These are forums with the invitation of leading Russian and foreign scientists, such as <span id="p46_8"/>Primakov Readings<a href="#_15044-4038_chp004_en003" id="R_15044-4038_chp004_en003" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>3</sup></a> and the international Valdai Discussion Club.<a href="#_15044-4038_chp004_en004" id="R_15044-4038_chp004_en004" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref"><sup>4</sup></a> These are public forums. They have their own advantages, but they do not provide privacy.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The expansion of scientific contacts and the inclusion in them not only of leading scientists, but also of a significantly larger number of researchers, university professors, and students and postgraduates, has led to the formation of a virtually new area of public diplomacy – <span id="p46_1"/>academic diplomacy. It united the fields of scientific diplomacy and <span id="p46_2"/>educational diplomacy into a single complex. The reasons for the formation of this new complex lie in the processes of globalization and integration of higher education, which have led to a sharp expansion of the circle of participants in interaction in the field of education and science. In addition, universities have become much more active. They provide platforms for various meetings and discussions, and often invite representatives of the authorities, businesses, and journalists to these events. Finally, new technologies have provided completely different opportunities for joint discussions and development of ideas [Torkunov, 2019].</p>
<p class="text_indent">A number of studies by Russian scientists are devoted to the role of the <span id="p46_7"/>media in the implementation of public diplomacy, and the research is carried out both by specialists in the field of <span id="p46_3"/>international relations and to an even greater extent by specialists in the field of <span id="p46_6"/>mass communication [see, e.g., Orlova, 2003]. The activities of <span id="p46_9"/>Russia Today (RT) are discussed especially intensively, as a rule, with positive assessments of its activities [see, e.g., Kolevatova, 2016]. It is noted that the role of the media is especially high thanks to modern information technologies, when, along with traditional media, <span id="p46_4"/>Internet resources are used. It is important to emphasize that although we are talking about traditional media, almost all of them have websites and accounts on <span id="p46_10"/>social networks that work in an interactive format.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The research of Russian scientists examines the interaction of the state and the media. It is noted that the state is interested in increasing the influence in the world of those media that can widely relay information that is important to the state [Zegonov, 2008].</p>
<p class="text_indent">The use of traditional media in public diplomacy in Russia (as well as in other states) turns out to be the most difficult and problematic field. The media are aimed at a <span id="p46_5"/>mass audience, unlike, for example, educational programs or science. Even with the implementation of cultural or sports <span id="p47" aria-label="47" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>projects, the audience is much narrower. As a result, the media in all countries use different means of <span id="p47_7"/>influence, which do not exclude propaganda and strategic communication. Moreover, the media are used in information <span id="p47_8"/>wars. Simultaneously with these means, public <span id="p47_13"/>diplomacy is also used, which implies the creation of attractiveness for an external audience. Since the attractiveness for different segments of the population is different, the media are perceived ambiguously. It is obvious that the use of different means of influence by the same media leads to a decrease in trust in it.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The Russian <span id="p47_1"/>academic literature examines the involvement of the media in wars, hybrid wars, and information wars [see, e.g., Frolova &amp; Frolova, 2018]. The media act here as the most sensitive link, since they are oriented towards mass involvement.</p>
<p class="text_indent">In Russia, the first studies on the problems of <span id="p47_4"/>compatriots, which were previously absent, appeared. For example, Chepurin notes that the views on the problem of compatriots have been significantly revised. In the past, the problems of compatriots were not the focus of attention. At present, it is understood that compatriots belong to a common civilizational space with Russia. Chepurin emphasizes that a strong diaspora integrated into the society of the country of residence is important for modern Russia. Meanwhile, the community of compatriots living abroad is poorly structured [Chepurin, 2009].</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p47_5"/>Russian studies on cultural diplomacy began to be published more actively. Thus, the article by Tabarintseva-Romanov is devoted to identifying the tools, mechanisms, and resources of cultural diplomacy, noting that these are effective tools for establishing a dialogue. At the same time, she controversially states that, unlike past policy, modern cultural policy is no longer associated with propaganda [Tabarintseva-Romanova, 2019].</p>
<p class="text_indent">In addition, in contrast to the Soviet period, <span id="p47_11"/>religious diplomacy began to develop [see, e.g., Kasatkin, 2010]. Youth diplomacy and <span id="p47_9"/>parliamentary diplomacy began to acquire great importance in Russia [see, e.g., Kon’kov &amp; Chukov, 2019]. In general, there are a few conceptual works on these areas, as well as on the youth aspects of public diplomacy.</p>
<aside epub:type="footnotes" role="doc-footnote" class="endnotes">
<h2 id="_15044-4038_chp004_nt001" class="ENH">Notes</h2>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp004_en001"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp004_en001">1</a></span> European Commission. (2007). A glance at EU public diplomacy at work: The EU’s 50th anniversary celebrations around the world (p. 12). Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities.</div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp004_en002"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp004_en002">2</a></span> Panchenko, V., &amp; Torkunov, A. V. (2017, June 26). Uchenyy kak diplomat. <i>Rossiyskaya gazeta</i>. Retrieved from <a href="https://rg.ru">https://rg.ru/2017/06/26/kak-nauchnoe-sotrudnichestvo-pomogaet-resheniiu-mezhdunarodnyh-problem.html</a> [Panchenko, <span id="p48" aria-label="48" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>V., &amp; Torkunov, A. V. (2017, June 26). Scientist as a diplomat. <i>Russian Newspaper</i>. Retrieved from <a href="https://rg.ru">https://rg.ru/2017/06/26/kak-nauchnoe-sotrudnichestvo-pomogaet-resheniiu-mezhdunarodnyh-problem.html</a>]. (In Russian).</div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp004_en003"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp004_en003">3</a></span> Primakov Readings website. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.primakovreadings.com">www.primakovreadings.com/en</a></div>
<div epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote" class="footnote_1digit" id="_15044-4038_chp004_en004"><span class="label"><a role="doc-backlink" href="#R_15044-4038_chp004_en004">4</a></span> The Valdai Discussion Club website. Retrieved from <a href="https://valdaiclub.com">https://valdaiclub.com/about/valdai/</a></div>
</aside>
</section>
</article>
</body>
</html>