<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" dir="ltr">
<head>
<title>5 Conclusion</title>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/mathml.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<article id="ch05" epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter">
<h1 class="chap" epub:type="title" id="_15044-4038_ch005"><a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch005"><span id="p49" aria-label="49" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>5</a> <a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch005">Conclusion</a></h1>
<p class="text_noindent_mrgtop0">Public diplomacy is becoming an essential tool of influence in the modern world. At the same time, the widespread understanding of public diplomacy as an instrument of state influence on foreign society requires clarification. At the end of the 20th and the beginning of the 21st centuries, a cardinal transformation of the political organization of the world has taken place. In connection with the transformation of the political organization of the world, from the point of view of public diplomacy, two points turn out to be significant. First is the massive activity of non-state actors in the international arena in the context of modern information and communication technologies. This entails the active use of a variety of information and different means for different categories of people. Second, the process of building configurations of interstate relations after the collapse of the bipolar system gave rise to a struggle for leadership between states, which led to the strengthening of various means of influencing the external audience. Public diplomacy is just one of the tools of such influence (along with propaganda, strategic communication, and the formation of national branding), the most important characteristic of which is attractiveness, that is, orientation towards soft power when using it. In addition, important criteria that distinguish public diplomacy from other types of influence are orientation towards dialogue with a foreign audience and cooperation with foreign states; openness in relationships; orientation to the foreign policy of a state that implements public diplomacy; and, in theoretical terms, the use of the concept of soft power and research within the framework of the neoliberal or constructivist paradigm. Ignoring these specific characteristics of public diplomacy leads to its identification with other means of influencing a foreign audience, and, as a consequence, to an increase in confrontation in the world.</p>
<p class="text_indent">During the Cold War era, structures and institutions began to be created to influence the audience of foreign countries, including the Soviet Union. <span id="p50" aria-label="50" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>As in other states, they were focused on the implementation of public diplomacy according to the G2P formula and included the media (broadcasting), cultural, sports diplomacy, and so on. In general, the public diplomacy of the Soviet period was extremely centralized. Of particular note is the effectiveness of scientific diplomacy during the Cold War, which contributed to the conclusion of a number of agreements on disarmament issues.</p>
<p class="text_indent">After a period of decline in interest in public diplomacy in the world and in Russia in the 1990s, its revival took place in the 2000s. Russia, like a number of other countries, has turned to an instrument of public diplomacy, which has become an important part of its foreign policy. This is due to both the revival of public diplomacy in the world as a whole and the foreign policy goals of Russia. Russian interest in public diplomacy at the official level is reflected in the adoption of strategic documents, as well as in the development of public diplomacy practice. Some areas in which public diplomacy was used during the Cold War (media, cultural, scientific, and sports diplomacy) continue to be used nowadays. At the same time, new tools of public diplomacy have emerged. Thus, Internet technologies, including Web 2.0 technologies, have become an integral part of Russia’s public diplomacy. In addition, the number of Russian participants in public diplomacy has increased dramatically, both in terms of their total number and in terms of the diversity of groups that have become involved in public diplomacy. This has led to the fact that Russia’s public diplomacy, despite the creation of a number of new state structures, has become less centralized in comparison with the Soviet time.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The development of the practice has led to an increase in research on public diplomacy in Russia. In Russian studies of public diplomacy, several areas are highlighted. Most of the research focuses on the analysis of public diplomacy of various states, which is carried out mainly through non-state structures or actors affiliated with the state. Therefore, it is no coincidence that public diplomacy in Russia is understood as people’s diplomacy or citizen’s diplomacy. The approaches of various states to public diplomacy, directions, and tools are analyzed in Russia. Particular attention is paid to Russian public diplomacy. Its strengths and weaknesses are identified. There is no single point of view regarding the shortcomings of Russian public diplomacy, although a number of researchers indicate the need for its greater centralization and coordination. At the same time, the question arises here as to what extent it is possible to do this, since many actors operate in the modern world.</p>
<p class="text_indent">In addition, Russian researchers focus on such areas of public diplomacy as the role of information and communication technologies, public diplomacy in conflict and crisis relations, academic diplomacy, the role of the media, and others.</p>
<p class="text_indent"><span id="p51" aria-label="51" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Most Russian researchers proceed from the understanding that public diplomacy is oriented toward soft power and is more open in contrast to propaganda. However, the understanding of soft power differs among various researchers. Although more and more Russian scholars now consider soft power as creating attractiveness, some researchers understand soft power only as the use of nonviolent means. In general, public diplomacy and soft power are understood uncertainly in Russia.</p>
<p class="text_indent">The relationship between public diplomacy, people’s diplomacy, and citizen’s diplomacy is also discussed. In other words, the question of whether public diplomacy is implemented only by non-state actors is debated. Most researchers see two channels for the implementation of public diplomacy; however, research on the official channels of public diplomacy is almost never done. Russian scientists in most cases focus on non-state actors. This raises the question of how independent non-state actors are.</p>
<p class="text_indent">An area of research is also outlined to identify the three sides of public diplomacy, which were not initially obvious.</p>
</section>
</article>
</body>
</html>