<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en" dir="ltr">
<head>
<title>References</title>
<link href="../styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/mathml.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<article id="references" epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="bibliography" role="doc-bibliography">
<h1 epub:type="title" id="_15044-4038_ch005_BMRefH001"><a role="doc-backlink" href="contents.xhtml#R_15044-4038_ch005_BMRefH001"><span id="p52" aria-label="52" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>References</a></h1>
<div>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Acharya, A. (2016). Advancing global IR: Challenges, contentions, and contributions. <i>International Studies Review</i>, <i>18</i>, 4–15.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Achkasova, V. A., &amp; Kostritskaya, T. B. (2004). “Russkiy mir” i problemy realizatsii proyekta Yevraziyskogo soyuza. <i>Yevraziyskaya integratsiya: ekonomika, pravo, politika</i>, <i>1</i>, 117–123 [Achkasova, V. A., &amp; Kostritskaya, T. B. (2004). “Russian World” and the problems of implementing the project of the Eurasian Union. <i>Eurasian Integration: Economics, Law, Politics, 1</i>, 117–123]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Aleksanyan, L. M. (2018). Rol’ publichnoy diplomatii vo vneshney politike Turtsii v otnoshenii Gruzii. <i>Problemy postsovetskogo prostranstva, 5</i>(4), 418–428. Retrieved from <a href="https://doi.org/10.24975/2313-8920-2018-5-4-418-428">https://doi.org/10.24975/2313-8920-2018-5-4-418-428</a> [Aleksanyan, L. M. (2018). The role of public diplomacy in Turkish foreign policy towards Georgia. <i>Issues of the Post-Soviet Space, 5</i>(4), 418–428. Retrieved from <a href="https://doi.org/10.24975/2313-8920-2018-5-4-418-428">https://doi.org/10.24975/2313-8920-2018-5-4-418-428</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Anholt, S. (2006). Public diplomacy and place branding: Where’s the link? <i>Place Branding</i>, <i>2</i>, 271–275. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1057/palgrave.pb.6000040">10.1057/palgrave.pb.6000040</a>. Retrieved from <a href="https://link.springer.com">https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1057%2Fpalgrave.pb.6000040.pdf</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Anholt, S. (2007). <i>Competitive identity: The new brand management for nations, regions and cities</i>. Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Antyukhova, Ye A. (2017). Nekotoryye aspekty publichnoy diplomatii NATO v usloviyakh depolyarizatsii politicheskoy sistemy mira. In M. M. Lebedeva (red.), <i>Publichnaya diplomatiya: Teoriya i praktika</i> (S. 128–143). Moskva: Aspekt Press [Antyuhova, E. A. (2017). Some aspects of NATO’s public diplomacy in conditions of depolarization of the political system of the world. In M. M. Lebedeva (Ed.), <i>Public diplomacy: Theory and practice</i> (pp. 128–143). Moscow: Aspect Press]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Antyukhova, Ye A. (2019). Obrazovaniye kak instrument “myagkoy sily” vo vneshney politike Germanii. <i>Vestnik Tomskogo gosudarstvennogo universiteta. Istoriya, 57</i>, 41–45. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.17223/19988613/57/6">10.17223/19988613/57/6</a>. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.elibrary.ru">www.elibrary.ru/download/elibrary_37182456_55347115.pdf</a> [Antyuhova, E. A. (2019). Education as a tool of soft power in German foreign policy. <i>Bulletin of Tomsk State University. History, 57</i>, 41–45. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.17223/19988613/57/6">10.17223/19988613/57/6</a>. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.elibrary.ru">www.elibrary.ru/download/elibrary_37182456_55347115.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><span id="p53" aria-label="53" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Bakhriev, B. Kh. (2018). “Myagkaya sila” i publichnaya diplomatiya: vozmozhnosti dlya nezavisimogo Tadzhikistana. <i>Vestnik Tomskogo gosudarstvennogo universiteta, 436</i>, 97–105. Retrieved from <a href="https://tsuvestnik.elpub.ru">https://tsuvestnik.elpub.ru/jour/article/view/1260</a> [Bakhriev, B. Kh. (2018). Soft power and public diplomacy: Opportunities for independent Tajikistan. <i>Bulletin of Tomsk State University</i>, <i>436</i>, 97–105]. Retrieved from <a href="https://tsuvestnik.elpub.ru">https://tsuvestnik.elpub.ru/jour/article/view/1260</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Bakhriev, B. Kh, &amp; Dzhabbari, Kh R. (2017). Publichnaya diplomatiya vo vneshney politike Islamskoy Respubliki Iran. In M. M. Lebedeva (red.), <i>Publichnaya diplomatiya: Teoriya i praktika</i> (S. 194–216). Moskva: Aspekt Press [Bakhriev, B. H., &amp; Jabbari, H. R. (2017). Public diplomacy in the foreign policy of the Islamic Republic of Iran. In M. M. Lebedeva (Ed.), <i>Public diplomacy: Theory and practice</i> (pp. 194–216). Moscow: Aspect Press]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Baykov, A. A. (2014). “Myagkaya moshch’ ” Yevropeyskogo Soyuza v global’nom silovom ravnovesii: yevro-rossiyskiy trek. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universiteta</i>, <i>2</i>(35), 36–46. Retrieved from <a href="https://vestnik.mgimo.ru">https://vestnik.mgimo.ru/jour/article/view/61/61</a> [Baykov, A. A. (2014). Soft power of the European Union in the global power balance: Euro-Russian track. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>2</i>(35), 36–46]. Retrieved from <a href="https://vestnik.mgimo.ru">https://vestnik.mgimo.ru/jour/article/view/61/61</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Bezrukova, M. (2014). Osobennosti obshchestvennoy diplomatii Germanii v Rossii. <i>Trendy i upravleniye</i>, <i>3</i>, 237–242. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.7256/2454-0730.2014.3.12726">10.7256/2454-0730.2014.3.12726</a>. Retrieved from <a href="https://nbpublish.com">https://nbpublish.com/library_read_article.php?id=12726</a> [Bezrukova, M. (2014). Features of German public diplomacy in Russia. <i>Trends and Management</i>, <i>3</i>, 237–242. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.7256/2454-0730.2014.3.12726">10.7256/2454-0730.2014.3.12726</a>. Retrieved from <a href="https://nbpublish.com">https://nbpublish.com/library_read_article.php?id=12726</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Bodrova, O. I. (2014). Rol’ “Narodnoy diplomatii” v komplekse diplomaticheskogo instrumentariya KNR. <i>Vestnik Nizhegorodskogo universiteta im. N. I. Lobachevskogo</i>, <i>5</i>, 64–68 [Bodrova, O. I. (2014). The role of “people’s diplomacy” in the complex of diplomatic tools of the PRC. <i>Bulletin of the Nizhny Novgorod University. N.I. Lobachevsky</i>, <i>5</i>, 64–68]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Bogolyubova, N. M. (2013). Vneshnyaya kul’turnaya politika Rossii: istoricheskiy opyt i problemy sovremennogo perioda. <i>Vestnik Sankt-Peterburgskogo universiteta</i>. <i>Seriya 6</i>, <i>3</i>, 143–146 [Bogolyubova, N. M. (2013). Foreign cultural policy of Russia: Historical experience and problems of the current period. <i>Bulletin of St. Petersburg University. Series 6</i>, <i>3</i>, 143–146]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Bogolyubova, N. M., &amp; Nikolayeva, Yu V. (2019). <i>Geopolitika sporta i osnovy sportivnoy diplomatii</i>. Moskva: Izdatel’stvo Yurayt [Bogolyubova, N. M., &amp; Nikolaeva, Yu V. (2019). <i>Geopolitics of sport and the basics of sports diplomacy</i>. Moscow: Yurayt Publishing House]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Borishpolets, K. P. (2015). Publichnaya diplomatiya na prostranstve YEAES: osmysleniye fenomena i tendentsiy razvitiya. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universiteta</i>, <i>5</i>(44), 42–49. Retrieved from <a href="https://vestnik.mgimo.ru">https://vestnik.mgimo.ru/jour/article/view/418/418</a> [Borishpolets, K. P. (2015). Public diplomacy in the EAEU: An understanding of the phenomenon and tendencies of development. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>5</i>(44), 42–49]. Retrieved from <a href="https://vestnik.mgimo.ru">https://vestnik.mgimo.ru/jour/article/view/418/418</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><span id="p54" aria-label="54" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Borishpolets, K. P. (2017). Publichnaya diplomatiya SNG: vklad v razvitiye regional’nogo integratsionnogo sotrudnichestva i preodoleniya konfliktnykh vyzovov. In M. M. Lebedeva (red.), <i>Publichnaya diplomatiya: Teoriya i praktika</i> (S. 89–111). Moskva: Aspekt Press [Borishpolets, K. P. (2017). CIS public diplomacy: A contribution to the development of regional integration cooperation and overcoming conflict challenges. In M. M. Lebedeva (Ed.), <i>Public diplomacy: Theory and practice</i> (pp. 89–111). Moscow: Aspect Press]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Burlinova, N. V. (2014). Publichnaya diplomatiya Rossii: praktika i problemy stanovleniya. <i>Vestnik Analitiki</i>, <i>3</i>(57), 28–35. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.isoa.ru">www.isoa.ru/docs/vestnik_2014-357.pdf</a> [Burlinova, N. V. (2014). Public diplomacy of Russia: Practice and problems of formation. <i>Bulletin of Analytics</i>, <i>3</i>(57), 28–35. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.isoa.ru">www.isoa.ru/docs/vestnik_2014-357.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Burlinova, N. V., Ivanchenko, V., &amp; Gribkova, D. (2018). <i>Rossiyskaya publichnaya diplomatiya v 2017 godu. Obzor osnovnykh sobytiy i trendov</i>. Moskva: “Tsentr podderzhki i razvitiya obshchestvennykh initsiativ – Kreativnaya diplomatiya” [Burlinova, N., Ivanchenko, V., &amp; Gribkova, D. (2018). <i>Russian public diplomacy in 2017. Overview of key events and trends</i>. Moscow: “Center for Support and Development of Public Initiatives – Creative Diplomacy”]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Burlinova, N. V., Vasilenko, P., Ivanchenko, V., &amp; Shakirov, O. (2020). <i>10 shagov na puti k effektivnoy publichnoy diplomatii Rossii. Ekspertnyy obzor rossiyskoy publichnoy diplomatii v 2018–2019 gg</i>. No 52/2020. Sayt Rossiyskogo Soveta po mezhdunarodnym delam. Retrieved from <a href="https://russiancouncil.ru">https://russiancouncil.ru/papers/RussianPublicDiplomacy-Report52-Rus.pdf</a> [Burlinova, N., Vasilenko, P., Ivanchenko, V., &amp; Shakirov, O. (2020). <i>10 steps towards effective public diplomacy in Russia. An expert review of Russian public diplomacy in 2018–2019</i>. No. 52/2020. Website of the Russian Council on Foreign Affairs. Retrieved from <a href="https://russiancouncil.ru">https://russiancouncil.ru/papers/RussianPublicDiplomacy-Report52-Rus.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Bykov, A., &amp; Solntsev, K. (2020). Russian business diplomacy in Southeast Asia. Russian public diplomacy and nation branding. In A. Velikaya &amp; G. Simons (Eds.), <i>Russia’s public diplomacy: Evolution and practice</i> (pp. 183–200). Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Chepurin, A. (2009). “Tri kita” rossiyskoy diasporal’noy politiki. <i>Rossiya v global’noy politike</i>, <i>3</i>, 127–138. Retrieved from <a href="http://globalaffairs.ru">http://globalaffairs.ru/number/n_13207</a> [Chepurin, A. (2009). “Three Pillars” of Russian diasporal politics. <i>Russia in Global Affairs</i>, <i>3</i>, 127–138. Retrieved from <a href="http://globalaffairs.ru">http://globalaffairs.ru/number/n_13207</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Chepurina, M., &amp; Kuznetsov, E. (2020). Multiple facets of Russian public diplomacy in international organizations: A case study. In A. Velikaya &amp; G. Simons (Eds.), <i>Russia’s public diplomacy: Evolution and practice</i> (pp. 167–181). Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Cull, N. J. (2009). <i>Public diplomacy: Lessons from the past</i>. Los Angeles: Figueroa Press. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.uscpublicdiplomacy.org">www.uscpublicdiplomacy.org/sites/uscpublicdiplomacy.org/files/useruploads/u35361/2009%20Paper%202.pdf</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><span id="p55" aria-label="55" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/><i>Dictionary of International Relations Terms</i>. (1987). U.S. Department of State Library (3rd ed., pp. 85–86). Retrieved from <a href="https://books.google.ru">https://books.google.ru/books?id=XfWOAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA83&hl=ru&source=gbs_toc_r&cad=2#v=onepage&q&f=false</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Dolinskiy, A. (2011a). Diskurs o publichnoy diplomatii. <i>Mezhdunarodnyye protsessy</i>, <i>1</i>(25), 63–73. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.intertrends.ru">www.intertrends.ru/old/twenty-fifth/008.htm</a> [Dolinsky, A. (2011). Discourse on public diplomacy. <i>International Processes</i>, <i>1</i>(25), 63–73. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.intertrends.ru">www.intertrends.ru/old/twenty-fifth/008.htm</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Dolinskiy, A. (2011b). Evolyutsiya teoreticheskikh osnovaniy publichnoy diplomatii. Evolyutsiya teoreticheskikh osnovaniy publichnoy diplomatii. <i>Vestnik MGIMO Universiteta</i>, <i>2</i>(17), 275–280 [Dolinsky, A. (2011b). Evolution of the theoretical foundations of public diplomacy. Evolution of the theoretical foundations of public diplomacy. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>2</i>(17), 275–280]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Dolinskiy, A. V. (2012). Chto takoye obshchestvennaya diplomatiya i zachem ona nuzhna Rossii? <i>Rossiyskiy sovet po mezhdunarodnym delam</i>. Retrieved from <a href="http://russiancouncil.ru">http://russiancouncil.ru/analytics-and-comments/analytics/chto-takoe-obshchestvennaya-diplomatiya-i-zachem-ona-nuzhna-/</a> [Dolinsky, A. (2012). What is public diplomacy and why does Russia need it? <i>Russian Council on Foreign Affairs</i>. Retrieved from <a href="http://russiancouncil.ru">http://russiancouncil.ru/analytics-and-comments/analytics/chto-takoe-obshchestvennaya-diplomatiya-i-zachem-ona-nuzhna-/</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Dolinskiy, A. V. (2013a, sentyabrya 26). Publichnaya diplomatiya dlya biznesa, NKO i universitetov. <i>Rossiyskiy Sovet po mezhdunarodnym delam</i>.. Retrieved from <a href="http://russiancouncil.ru">http://russiancouncil.ru/analytics-and-comments/analytics/publichnaya-diplomatiya-dlya-biznesa-nko-i-universitetov/</a> [Dolinsky, A. (2013, September 26). Public diplomacy for business, NGOs and universities. <i>Russian Council on Foreign Affairs</i>. Retrieved from <a href="http://russiancouncil.ru">http://russiancouncil.ru/analytics-and-comments/analytics/publichnaya-diplomatiya-dlya-biznesa-nko-i-universitetov/</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Dolinskiy, A. V. (2013b, June 21). How Moscow understands soft power. <i>Russia Direct</i>. Retrieved from <a href="https://russia-direct.org">https://russia-direct.org/analysis/how-moscow-understands-soft-power</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Dolinskiy, A. V. (2014). Obrazovatel’nyye obmeny v publichnoy diplomatii: rossiyskiy i zarubezhnyy opyt. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universiteta</i>, <i>2</i>(35), 56–62. Retrieved from <a href="https://vestnik.mgimo.ru">https://vestnik.mgimo.ru/jour/article/view/63/63</a> [Dolinskiy, A. V. (2014). Educational exchanges in public diplomacy: Russian and foreign experience. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations, 2</i>(35), 56–62. Retrieved from <a href="https://vestnik.mgimo.ru">https://vestnik.mgimo.ru/jour/article/view/63/63</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Dzhabarri Nasir, Kh R. (2019). Osobennosti formirovaniya tsentral’noaziatskogo napravleniya publichnoy diplomatii Irana. <i>Izdaniye Saratovskogo universiteta. Seriya Sotsiologiya. Politologiya</i>, <i>19</i>(1), 106–112. Retrieved from <a href="https://cyberleninka.ru">https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/osobennosti-formirovaniya-tsentralnoaziatskogo-napravleniya-publichnoy-diplomatii-irana/viewer</a> [Jabarri Nasir, H. R. (2019). Features of the formation of the Central Asian direction of public diplomacy of Iran. <i>Edition of the Saratov University. Series Sociology. Political Science</i>, <i>19</i>(1), 106–112. Retrieved from <a href="https://cyberleninka.ru">https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/osobennosti-formirovaniya-tsentralnoaziatskogo-napravleniya-publichnoy-diplomatii-irana/viewer</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><span id="p56" aria-label="56" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Fedoreyeva, A. Yu. (2017). Publichnaya diplomatiya Kitaya. In <i>Nauka segodnya: vyzovy i puti ikh resheniya. Materialy mezhdunarodnoy nauchnoprakticheskoy konferentsii</i> (S. 144–145). Vologoda: Marker [Fedoreeva, A. Yu. (2017). Public diplomacy of China. In <i>Science today: Challenges and solutions. Materials of the International Scientific-Practical Conference</i> (pp. 144–145). Vologda: Marker]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Fominykh, A. Ye. (2008). “Myagkaya moshch’ ” obmennykh programm. <i>Mezhdunarodnyye protsessy</i>, <i>6</i>(1), 76–85 [Fominykh, A. (2008). Soft power of exchange programs. <i>International Processes</i>, <i>6</i>(1), 76–85]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Fominykh, A. Ye. (2018)<i>. Publichnaya diplomatiya YeS. Vneshnyaya politika i mezhdunarodnyye svyazi Yevropeyskogo soyuza: Osmyslivaya rol’ YeS v mire</i>. Irkutsk: Ottisk. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.volgatech.net">www.volgatech.net/Jean_Monnet_centre/publication/Irkutsk_EU%20Public%20Diplomacy%20article.pdf</a> [Fominykh, A. E. (2018). <i>EU public diplomacy. European Union foreign policy and international relations: Reflecting on the EU’s role in the world</i>. Irkutsk: Imprint. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.volgatech.net">www.volgatech.net/Jean_Monnet_centre/publication/Irkutsk_EU%20Public%20Diplomacy%20article.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Frolova, I. I., &amp; Frolova, A. A. (2018). <i>Informatsionnaya voyna v sovremennykh SMI kak faktor manipulyativnogo vozdeystviya na obshchestvo: monografiya</i>. Kursk: Izdatel’stvo ZAO “Universitetskaya kniga” [Frolova, I. I., &amp; Frolova, A. A. (2018). <i>Information warfare in modern media as a factor of manipulative influence on society: Monograph</i>. Kursk: Publishing house “University Book”]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Fukuyama, F. (1989, Summer). The end of history? <i>The National Interest</i>, <i>16</i>, 3–18.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Gotz, N. (2011). Civil society and NGO: Far from unproblematic concepts. In B. Renalda (Ed.), <i>The Ashgate research companion to non-state actors</i> (pр. 185–196). Burlington: Ashgate.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Grebenkina, Ye. (2017). Sovremennaya diplomatiya na puti k setevoy strukture mira. <i>Mezhdunarodnaya zhizn</i>‘, <i>4</i>, 99–112 [Grebenkina, E. (2017). Modern diplomacy on the way to the network structure of the world. <i>International Affairs</i>, <i>4</i>, 99–112]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Gridnev, Yu A. (2000). <i>Sozdaniye VOKS. Zadachi i tseli. Istoriki razmyshlyayut</i> (Vyp. 2, S. 285–299). Moskva: Zvezdopad. Retrieved from <a href="https://rusneb.ru">https://rusneb.ru/catalog/000202_000005_265324/</a> [Gridnev, Yu A. (2000). <i>Creation of VOKS. Tasks and goals. Historians ponder</i> (No. 2, pp. 285–299). Moscow: Zvezdopad. Retrieved from <a href="https://rusneb.ru">https://rusneb.ru/catalog/000202_000005_265324/</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Gromoglasova, Ye S. (2018). <i>Gumanitarnaya diplomatiya v sovremennykh mezhdunarodnykh otnosheniyakh: opyt sistemnogo issledovaniya</i>. Moskva: IMEMO RAN [Gromoglasova, Ye S. (2018). <i>Gumanitarnaya diplomatiya v sovremennykh mezhdunarodnykh otnosheniyakh: opyt sistemnogo issledovaniya</i>. Moscow: IMEMO RAN]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Ivanova, N.A. (2015). Ofitsial’nyy i publichnyy dialog mezhdu Litvoy i Rossiyey: poisk kommunikativnykh resheniy. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universiteta</i>, <i>5</i>(44), 63–71. Retrieved from <a href="https://vestnik.mgimo.ru">https://vestnik.mgimo.ru/jour/article/view/420/420</a> [Ivanova, N.A. (215). Official and public dialogue in Lithuania-Russia relationships: In <span id="p57" aria-label="57" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>search of communicative solutions. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>5</i>(44), 63–71]. Retrieved from <a href="https://vestnik.mgimo.ru">https://vestnik.mgimo.ru/jour/article/view/420/420</a> (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Jowett, G., &amp; O’Donnel, V. (2012). <i>Propaganda and persuasion</i> (5th ed.). Los Angeles and London.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kasatkin, P. I. (2010). Russkaya pravoslavnaya tserkov’ kak aktor mirovoy politiki. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universiteta</i>, <i>6</i>(15), 141–151 [Kasatkin, P. I. (2010). The Russian Orthodox Church as an actor in world politics. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>6</i>(15), 141–151]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kasyuk, A. Ya. (2018). “Myagkaya sila” i sanktsionnaya politika Zapada. Vestnik Moskovskogo gosudarstvennogo lingvisticheskogo universiteta. <i>Obshchestvennyye nauki</i>, <i>2</i>(800), 50–66 [Kasyuk, A. Ya. (2018). Soft power and the Western sanctions policy. Bulletin of the Moscow State Linguistic University. <i>Social Sciences</i>, <i>2</i>(800), 50–66]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kazarinova, D. (2011). Fenomen “myagkoy sily”. <i>Svobodnaya mysl’</i>, <i>3</i>(1622), 187–200 [Kazarinova, D. (2011). The phenomenon of soft power. <i>Svobodnaya mysl</i>, <i>3</i>(1622), 187–200]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Keohane, R. O., &amp; Nye, J. S. (1971). Transnational relations and world politics: An introduction. <i>International Organization</i>, <i>25</i>(3), 329–349.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kharitonova, E., &amp; Prokhorenko, I. (2020). Russian science diplomacy. Russian public diplomacy and nation branding. In A. Velikaya &amp; G. Simons (Eds.), <i>Russia’s public diplomacy: Evolution and practice</i> (pp. 133–146). Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kharkevich, M. V. (2014). “Myagkaya sila”: politicheskoye ispol’zovaniye nauchnoy kontseptsii. <i>Vestnik MGIMO Universiteta</i>, <i>2</i>(35), 26–27 [Kharkevich, M. V. (2014). Soft power: The political use of a scientific concept. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>2</i>(35), 26–27]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kissinger, H. (2014). <i>World order</i>. New York: Penguin Press.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kolevatova, T. S. (2016). Sovremennyye sredstva informatsii v publichnoy diplomatii Rossii. <i>Vlast</i>, <i>24</i>(1), 51–56 [Kolevatova, T. S. (2016). Modern media in Russian public diplomacy. <i>Vlast</i>, <i>24</i>(1), 51–56]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kon’kov, A. Ye, &amp; Chukov, R. S. (2019). Parlamentskaya diplomatiya i kul’tura parlamentskogo dialoga v sovremennoy politike. <i>Gosudarstvennoye upravleniye. Elektronnyy vestnik</i>, <i>77</i>, 124–143. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.24411/2070-1381-2019-10021">10.24411/2070-1381-2019-10021</a> [Konkov, A. E., &amp; Chukov, R. S. (2019). Parliamentary diplomacy and the culture of parliamentary dialogue in modern politics. <i>Public Administration. Electronic Bulletin</i>, <i>77</i>, 124–143. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.24411/2070-1381-2019-10021">10.24411/2070-1381-2019-10021</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kononenko, V. A. (2006). <i>Sozdat’ obraz Rossii? Rossij v global’noj politike</i>. No 2 (mart–aprel’). Retrieved from <a href="http://www.globalaffairs.ru">www.globalaffairs.ru/number/n_6562</a> [Kononenko, V. A. (2006). <i>Create the Image of Russia? Russia in Global Politics</i>. No. 2 (March–April). Retrieved from <a href="http://www.globalaffairs.ru">www.globalaffairs.ru/number/n_6562</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kornilov, A., &amp; Makarychev, A. (2015). <i>Religion, nation and democracy in the South Caucasus</i>. Series “Routledge contemporary Russia and Eastern Europe series” (pp. 238–254). A. Agadjanian, A. Jödicke, &amp; E. van der Zweerde (Eds.). Routledge: London and New York.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><span id="p58" aria-label="58" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Kovalenko, S. A., &amp; Smolik, N. G. (2014). Uchastiye RUDN v deyatel’nosti setevogo universiteta SNG. Vestnik RUDN. <i>Seriya mezhdunarodnyye otnosheniya</i>, <i>4</i>, 207–213 [Kovalenko, S. A., &amp; Smolik, N. G. (2014). Participation of RUDN University in the activities of the CIS Network University. <i>RUDN Bulletin</i>. International Relations Series, <i>4</i>, 207–213]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Krivokhizh, S.V. (2012). «Myagkaya sila» i publichnaya diplomatiya v teorii i vneshnepoliticheskoy praktike Kitaya. <i>Vestnik Sankt-Peterburgskogo universiteta. Seriya 13</i>. Vostokovedeniye. Afrikanistika, <i>3</i>, 103–111. Retrieved from <a href="https://cyberleninka.ru">https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/myagkaya-sila-i-publichnaya-diplomatiya-v-teorii-i-vneshnepoliticheskoy-praktike-kitaya/viewer</a> [Krivokhizh, S.V. (2012). “Soft power” and public diplomacy in theory and foreign policy practice of China. <i>Bulletin of St. Petersburg University. Series 13</i>. Oriental studies. African Studies, <i>3</i>, 103–111]. Retrieved from <a href="https://cyberleninka.ru">https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/myagkaya-sila-i-publichnaya-diplomatiya-v-teorii-i-vneshnepoliticheskoy-praktike-kitaya/viewer</a> (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kubyshkin, A. I., &amp; Tsvetkova, N. A. (2013). <i>Publichnaya diplomatiya SShA</i>. Moskva: Aspekt Press [Kubyshkin, A. I., &amp; Tsvetkova, N. A. (2013). <i>USA public diplomacy</i>. Moscow: Aspect Press]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Kuzina, O. Ye. (2020). Diskurs publichnoy diplomatii Germanii (2014–2019 gg.). <i>Manuskript</i>, <i>13</i>(5), 94–99 [Kuzina, O. E. (2020). Discourse on public diplomacy in Germany (2014–2019). <i>Manuscript</i>, <i>13</i>(5), 94–99]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lan’shina, T. A. (2014). “Myagkaya sila” Germanii: kul’tura, obrazovaniye, nauka. <i>Vestnik mezhdunarodnykh organizatsiy: obrazovaniye, nauka, novaya ekonomika</i>, <i>2</i>, 28–58 [Lanshina, T. A. (2014). Soft power of Germany: Culture, education, science. <i>International Organisations Research Journal</i>, <i>2</i>, 28–58]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lan’shina, T. A. (2015). “Myagkaya sila” Gote-Instituta. <i>Vestnik mezhdunarodnykh organizatsiy: obrazovaniye, nauka, novaya ekonomika</i>, <i>10</i>(1), 118–142 [Lanshina, T. A. (2015). The soft power of the Goethe Institute. <i>International Organisations Research Journal</i>, <i>10</i>(1), 118–142]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lebedeva, M. M. (2015a). Publichnaya diplomatiya v uregulirovanii konfliktov. <i>Mezhdunarodnyye protsessy</i>, <i>13</i>(4), 45–56. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.17994/IT.2015.13.4.43.3">10.17994/IT.2015.13.4.43.3</a>. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.intertrends.ru">www.intertrends.ru/forty-third/Lebedeva.pdf</a> [Lebedeva, M. M. (2015a). Public diplomacy in conflict resolution. <i>International Processes</i>, <i>13</i>(4), 45–56. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.17994/IT.2015.13.4.43.3">10.17994/IT.2015.13.4.43.3</a>. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.intertrends.ru">www.intertrends.ru/forty-third/Lebedeva.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lebedeva, M. M. (2015b). Sotsial’no-gumanitarnyy resurs razvitiya na yevraziyskom prostranstve. <i>Yevraziyskaya integratsiya: ekonomika, pravo, politika</i>, <i>1</i>(17), 161–167 [Lebedeva, M. M. (2015b). Social and humanitarian development resource in the Eurasian space. <i>Eurasian Integration: Economics, Law, Politics</i>, <i>1</i>(17), 161–167]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lebedeva, M. M. (2017a). “Myagkaya sila”: ponyatiye i podkhody. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universiteta</i>, <i>3</i>(54), 212–223. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.24833/2071-8160-2017-3-54-212-223">10.24833/2071-8160-2017-3-54-212-223</a>. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.vestnik.mgimo.ru">www.vestnik.mgimo.ru/razdely/issledovatelskie-stati/myagkaya-sila-ponyatie-i-podhody</a> [Lebedeva, M. M. (2017a). Soft power: Concept <span id="p59" aria-label="59" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>and approaches. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>3</i>(54), 212–223. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.24833/2071-8160-2017-3-54-212–223">10.24833/2071-8160-2017-3-54-212–223</a>. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.vestnik.mgimo.ru">www.vestnik.mgimo.ru/razdely/issledovatelskie-stati/myagkaya-sila-ponyatie-i-podhody</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lebedeva, M. M. (2017b). Publichnaya diplomatiya: ischeznoveniye ili novyye gorizonty? In M. M. Lebedeva (red.), <i>Publichnaya diplomatiya: Teoriya i praktika</i> (S. 8–20). Moskva: Aspekt Press [Lebedeva, M. M. (2017b). Public diplomacy: Extinction or new horizons? In M. M. Lebedeva (Ed.), <i>Public diplomacy: Theory and practice</i> (pp. 8–20). Moscow: Aspect Press]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lebedeva, M. M. (2018). Razvitiye sotsial’noy i gumanitarnoy problematiki v mezhdunarodnykh issledovaniyakh: rossiyskiy rakurs. <i>Vestnik MGIMO – Universiteta</i>, <i>1</i>(58), 7–25. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.24833/2071-8160-2018-1-58-7-25">10.24833/2071-8160-2018-1-58-7-25</a> [Lebedeva, M. M. (2018). The development of social and humanitarian issues in international research: A Russian perspective. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>1</i>(58), 7–25. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.24833/2071-8160-2018-1-58-7-25">10.24833/2071-8160-2018-1-58-7-25</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lebedeva, M. M., Borishpolets, K. P., Ivanova, N. A., &amp; Chepurina, M. A. (2016). <i>Tsentral’naya Aziya. Sotsial’no-gumanitarnoye izmereniye</i>. Moskva: Aspekt Press [Lebedeva, M. M., Borishpolets, K. P., Ivanova, N. A., &amp; Chepurina, M. A. (2016). <i>Central Asia. The social and humanitarian dimension</i>. Moscow: Aspect Press]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lebedeva, M. M., &amp; Fort, J. (2009). Vyssheye obrazovaniye kak potentsial “myagkoy sily” Rossii. <i>Vestnik MGIMO – Universiteta</i>, <i>4</i>, 200–205 [Lebedeva, M. M., &amp; Fort, J. (2009). Higher education as the potential of Russia’s soft power. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>4</i>, 200–205]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lebedeva, M. M., Rustamova, L. R., &amp; Sharko, M. V. (2016). “Myagkaya sila”: tyomnaya storona (na primere Germanii). <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universiteta</i>, <i>3</i>, 144–153. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.vestnik.mgimo.ru">www.vestnik.mgimo.ru/sites/default/files/pdf/013_lebedevamm_rustamovalr_sharkomv.pdf</a> [Lebedeva, M. M., Rustamova, L. R., &amp; Sharko, M. V. (2016). Soft power: The dark side (example of Germany). <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>3</i>, 144–153. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.vestnik.mgimo.ru">www.vestnik.mgimo.ru/sites/default/files/pdf/013_lebedevamm_rustamovalr_sharkomv.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Leonard, M. (2002). <i>Public diplomacy</i>. London: Foreign Policy Centre. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.guillaumenicaise.com">www.guillaumenicaise.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/mark-leonard_public-diplomacy.pdf</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Lukin, A. V. (2013). Publichnaya diplomatiya. <i>Mezhdunarodnaya zhizn’</i>, <i>3</i>, 69–87 [Lukin, A. V. (2013). Public diplomacy. <i>International Affairs</i>, <i>3</i>, 69–87]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Manoylo, A. V. (2016). Informatsionnaya voyna kak ugroza rossiyskoy natsii. <i>Vestnik rossiyskoy natsii</i>, <i>6</i>, 174–184 [Manoilo, A. V. (2016). Information war as a threat to the Russian nation. <i>Bulletin of the Russian Nation</i>, <i>6</i>, 174–184]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Melissen, J. (2005). The new public diplomacy: Between theory and practice. In J. Melissen (Ed.), <i>The new public diplomacy: Soft power in international relations</i> (pp. 3–27). Houndmills, Basingstoke, Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan. Retrieved <span id="p60" aria-label="60" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>from <a href="http://www.culturaldiplomacy.org">www.culturaldiplomacy.org/academy/pdf/research/books/soft_power/The_New_Public_Diplomacy</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Mizherikov, V. A. (2015). Detskaya “diplomatiya”: istoki i perspektivy razvitiya. In L. N. Gorbunova (red.), <i>Konferentsium ASOU: sbornik nauchnykh trudov i materialov nauchno-prakticheskikh konferentsiy</i> (S. 107–111). Moskva: ASOU [Mizherikov, V. A. (2015). Children’s “diplomacy”: Origins and development prospects. In L. N. Gorbunova (Ed.), <i>ASOU conference: Collection of scientific papers and materials of scientific and practical conferences</i> (pp. 107–111). Moscow: ASOU]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Morozov, V., &amp; Simons, G. (2020). Russia’s public diplomacy in the Middle East. Russian public diplomacy and nation branding. In A. Velikaya &amp; G. Simons (Eds.), <i>Russia’s public diplomacy: Evolution and practice</i> (pp. 233–256). Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Moskovskiy, M. A. (2013). Dartmutskiy dialog: pervyye shagi neformal’noy sovetsko-amerikanskoy diplomatii. <i>Vestnik RUDN. Seriya Mezhdunarodnyye otnosheniya</i>, <i>3</i>, 33–47 [Moskovskiy, M. A. (2013). Dartmouth dialogue: The first steps of informal Soviet-American diplomacy. <i>Bulletin of the RUDN University. Series International Relations</i>, <i>3</i>, 33–47]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Mukhametov, R. S. (2014). Spetsifika obshchestvennoy diplomatii kak instrumenta vneshney politiki gosudarstva. <i>Izvestiya Ural’skogo federal’nogo universiteta. Seriya 3. Obshchestvennyye nauki</i>, <i>2</i>(128), 84–90. Retrieved from <a href="http://elar.urfu.ru">http://elar.urfu.ru/bitstream/10995/25264/1/iuro-2014-128-10.pdf</a> [Mukhametov, R. S. (2014). The specifics of public diplomacy as an instrument of state foreign policy. <i>Proceedings of the Ural Federal University. Series 3. Social Sciences</i>, <i>2</i>(128), 84–90. Retrieved from <a href="http://elar.urfu.ru">http://elar.urfu.ru/bitstream/10995/25264/1/iuro-2014-128-10.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Nagornov, V. A. (2014). “Myagkaya sila” po-frantsuzski. <i>Vestnik mezhdunarodnykh organizatsiy</i>, <i>9</i>(2), 167–189 [Nagornov, V. A. (2014). Soft power in French. <i>International Organisations Research Journal</i>, <i>9</i>(2), 167–189]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Naumov, A. O. (2017). K voprosu o perspektivakh sportivnoy diplomatii Rossii (na primere populyarizatsii bor’by sambo). <i>Gosudarstvennoye upravleniye. Elektronnyy vestnik</i>, <i>62</i>, 56–70. Retrieved from <a href="https://cyberleninka.ru">https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/k-voprosu-o-perspektivah-sportivnoy-diplomatii-rossii-na-primere-populyarizatsii-borby-sambo/viewer</a> [Naumov, A. O. (2017). On the issue of the prospects for sports diplomacy in Russia (by the example of the popularization of Sambo wrestling). <i>Public Administration. Electronic Bulletin</i>, <i>62</i>, 56–70. Retrieved from <a href="https://cyberleninka.ru">https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/k-voprosu-o-perspektivah-sportivnoy-diplomatii-rossii-na-primere-populyarizatsii-borby-sambo/viewer</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Naumov, A. O., &amp; Volk, A. Ye. (2018). Eksport rossiyskogo obrazovaniya kak instrument myagkoy sily vo vneshney politike Rossii. Gosudarstvennoye upravleniye Rossiyskoy Federatsii: vyzovy i perspektivy. In <i>Materialy 15-y Mezhdunarodnoy konferentsii Gosudarstvennoye upravleniye v XXI veke</i> (C. 558–563). Moskva: MGU [Naumov, A. O., &amp; Volk, A. E. (2018). Export of Russian education as an instrument of soft power in Russian foreign policy. Public administration of the Russian federation: Challenges and prospects. In <i>Materials of the 15th <span id="p61" aria-label="61" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>international conference public administration in the XXI century</i> (pp. 558–563). Moscow: Moscow State University]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><i>The New Public Diplomacy: Soft Power in International Relations</i>. (2005). J. Melissen (Ed.). Houndmills, Basingstoke, Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.culturaldiplomacy.org">www.culturaldiplomacy.org/academy/pdf/research/books/soft_power/The_New_Public_Diplomacy</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Neymark, M. A. (2016). “Myagkaya sila” v mirovoy politike. K utochneniyu problemnogo polya (chast’ 1). <i>Obozrevatel’/Observer</i>, <i>1</i>(312), 31–42 [Neimark, M. A. (2016). Soft power in world politics. To clarify the problem field (part 1). <i>Observer</i>, <i>1</i>(312), 31–42]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Neymark, M. A. (2017). <i>“Myagkaya sila” v mirovoy politike</i>. Moskva: Dashkov i K° [Neimark, M. A. (2017). <i>Soft power in world politics</i>. Moscow: Dashkov and K°]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Nikitina, Yu A. (2017). Publichnaya diplomatiya v rabote mezhpravitel’stvennykh organizatsiy na primere ODKB i SHOS. In M. M. Lebedeva (red.), <i>Publichnaya diplomatiya: Teoriya i praktika</i> (S. 112–127). Moskva: Aspekt Press [Nikitina, Yu A. (2017). Public diplomacy in the work of intergovernmental organizations on the example of the CSTO and SCO. In M. M. Lebedeva (Ed.), <i>Public diplomacy: Theory and practice</i> (pp. 112–127). Moscow: Aspect Press]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Nye J. 2002. <i>The Paradox of American Power: Why the World’s Only Superpower Can’t Go it Alone</i>. New York: Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Nye, J. S. (1990). <i>Bound to lead: The changing nature of American power</i>. New York: Basic Books.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Nye, J. S. (2004a). Soft power and higher education. <i>EDUCAUSE</i>. Retrieved from <a href="https://cdn.mashreghnews.ir">https://cdn.mashreghnews.ir/old/files/fa/news/1393/4/11/637473_515.pdf</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Nye, J. S. (2004b). <i>Soft power. The means to success in world politics</i>. New York: Public Affairs.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Nye, J. S. (2008). Public diplomacy and soft power. <i>Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science</i>, <i>16</i>(1), 94–109. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/0002716207311699">10.1177/0002716207311699</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Nye, J. S. (2018, January 5). China’s soft and sharp power. <i>China-US Focus</i>. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.chinausfocus.com">www.chinausfocus.com/society-culture/chinas-soft-and-sharp-power</a>-</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Orlova, V. V. (2003). <i>Global’nyye teleseti novostey na informatsionnom rynke</i>. Seriya “Prakticheskaya zhurnalistika”. Moskva: Izdatel’stvo “RIP-kholding”. Retrieved from <a href="http://evartist.narod.ru">http://evartist.narod.ru/text5/68.htm</a> [Orlova, V. V. (2003). <i>Global news networks in the information market</i>. “Practical Journalism Series”. Moscow: Publishing house “RIP-holding”. Retrieved from <a href="http://evartist.narod.ru">http://evartist.narod.ru/text5/68.htm</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Ovchinnikova, N., Zotkina, M., &amp; Getmanskaya, A. (2019). <i>Gosudarstvennyye programmy obrazovatel’noy mobil’nosti v raznykh stranakh</i>. Moskva: Tsentr transformatsii obrazovaniya Moskovskoy shkoly upravleniya SKOLKOVO. Retrieved from <a href="https://skolkovo.ru">https://skolkovo.ru/public/media/documents/research/sedec/SKOLKOVO_SEDeC_International_Mobility_2019.pdf</a> [Ovchinnikova, N., Zotkina, M., &amp; Getmanskaya, A. (2019). <i>State educational mobility programs in different countries</i>. Moscow: Education Transformation Center of the Moscow School of Management SKOLKOVO. Retrieved from <a href="https://skolkovo.ru">https://skolkovo.ru/public/<span id="p62" aria-label="62" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>media/documents/research/sedec/SKOLKOVO_SEDeC_International_Mobility_2019.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Panarin, I. N. (2016). Gladiatory gibridnoy voyny. <i>Ekonomicheskiye strategii</i>, <i>18</i>(2), 60–65 [Panarin, I. N. (2016). Gladiators of the hybrid war. <i>Economic Strategies</i>, <i>18</i>(2), 60–65]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Panova, Ye P. (2010). Sila privlekatel’nosti: ispol’zovaniye “myagkoy sily” v mirovoy politike. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universiteta</i>, <i>4</i>, 91–97 [Panova, E. P. (2010). The power of attractiveness: The use of soft power in world politics. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>4</i>, 91–97 (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Panova, Ye P. (2011). Vyssheye obrazovaniye kak instrument myagkoy vlasti gosudarstva. <i>Vestnik MGIMO – Universiteta</i>, <i>2</i>(15), 157–161 [Panova, E. P. (2011). Higher education as an instrument of soft power of the state. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>2</i>(15), 157–161]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Panova, Ye P. (2012). “<i>Myagkaya vlast’</i>” <i>kak sposob vozdeystviya v mirovoy politike</i>. Dissertatsiya na stepen’ kand. polit. n. Moskva: MGIMO (Universitet) [Panova, E. P. (2012). <i>The soft power as a way to influence in world politics</i> (PhD thesis). Moscow: MGIMO (University)]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Parshin, P. B. (2014). Dva ponimaniya “myagkoy sily”: Predposylki, korrelyaty i sledstviya. <i>Vestnik MGIMO Universiteta</i>, <i>2</i>(35), 14–21. Retrieved from <a href="http://vestnik.mgimo.ru">http://vestnik.mgimo.ru/sites/default/files/pdf/parshin.pdf</a> [Parshin, P. B. (2014). Two understandings of soft power: Backgrounds, correlates, and effects. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>2</i>(35), 14–21. Retrieved from <a href="http://vestnik.mgimo.ru">http://vestnik.mgimo.ru/sites/default/files/pdf/parshin.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Parubochnaya, Ye F., &amp; Piskunov, N. V. (2018). Obshchestvennaya diplomatiya kak instrument realizatsii rossiyskoy “myagkoy sily”. <i>Vestnik Volgogradskogo gosudarstvennogo universiteta. Seriya 4. Istoriya. Regionovedeniye. Mezhdunarodnyye otnosheniya</i>, <i>23</i>(6), 197–207 [Parubochnaya, E. F., &amp; Piskunov, N. V. (2018). Public diplomacy as a tool for implementing Russian soft power. <i>Bulletin of the Volgograd State University. Series 4. History. Regional Studies. International Relationships</i>, <i>23</i>(6), 197–207]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Permyakova, L. (2012). Tsifrovaya diplomatiya: napravleniya raboty, riski i instrumenty. Sentyabr’ 27. Sayt RSMD. Retrieved from <a href="http://russiancouncil.ru">http://russiancouncil.ru/inner/?id_4=862#top</a> [Permyakova, L. (2012). Digital diplomacy: directions of work, risks and tools. September 27. RIAC website. Retrieved from <a href="http://russiancouncil.ru">http://russiancouncil.ru/inner/?id_4=862#top</a> (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Permyakova, L., &amp; Skryagina, S. (2013). Sotsial’naya otvetstvennost’ kak “myagkaya sila” transnatsional’nykh kompaniy. <i>Diplomaticheskaya sluzhba</i>, <i>4</i>, 76–80 [Permyakova, L., &amp; Skryagina, S. (2013). Social responsibility as soft power of transnational companies. <i>Diplomatic Service</i>, <i>4</i>, 76–80]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Pestsov, S. K., &amp; Bobylo, A. M. (2015). “Myagkaya sila” v mirovoy politike: problema operatsionalizatsii teoreticheskogo kontsepta. <i>Vestnik Tomskogo gosudarstvennogo universiteta. Istoriya</i>, <i>2</i>(34), 108–114 [Pestsov, S. K., &amp; Bobylo, A. M. (2015). Soft power in world politics: The problem of operationalization of a theoretical concept. <i>Bulletin of Tomsk State University. History</i>, <i>2</i>(34), 108–114]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><span id="p63" aria-label="63" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Podberezkin, A. I. (2016). Voyennaya sila i politika novoy publichnoy diplomatii. <i>Obozrevatel’</i>, <i>12</i>(323), 15–25 [Podberezkin, A. (2016). Military force and the policy of new public diplomacy. <i>Reviewer</i>, <i>12</i>(323), 15–25]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Podberezkin, A. I., &amp; Zhukov, A. V. (2015). Publichnaya diplomatiya v silovom protivostoyanii tsivilizatsiy. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universiteta</i>, <i>6</i>(45), 106–116 [Podberezkin, A. I., &amp; Zhukov, A. V. (2015). Public diplomacy in the violent confrontation of civilizations. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>6</i>(45), 106–116]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><i>Routledge Handbook of Public Diplomacy</i>. (2008). Snow, N., &amp; Taylor, Ph M. (Eds.). New York: Routledge.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Rustamova, L. R. (2016). Osobennosti “myagkoy sily” vo vneshney politike FRG. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universitet</i>, <i>1</i>, 118–128 [Rustamova, L. R. (2016). Features of soft power in the foreign policy of Germany. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>1</i>, 118–128]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Ryzhov, Yu A., &amp; Lebedev, M. L. (2007). Yubiley Paguoshskogo dvizheniya. <i>Vestnik Rossiyskoy Akademii nauk</i>, <i>10</i>, 938–948 [Ryzhov, Yu A., &amp; Lebedev, M. L. (2007). Anniversary of the Pugwash movement. <i>Bulletin of the Russian Academy of Sciences</i>, <i>10</i>, 938–948]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Sedunov, A. V. (2017). Kul’turnaya diplomatiya kak instrument publichnoy diplomatii v Zabaykal’skom kraye RF. <i>Nauchnyy al’manakh</i>, <i>1</i>(35), 189–192. Retrieved from <a href="http://ucom.ru">http://ucom.ru/doc/na.2017.09.01.189.pdf</a> [Sedunov, A. V. (2017). Cultural diplomacy as an instrument of public diplomacy in the Trans-Baikal territory of the Russian federation. <i>Scientific Almanac</i>, <i>1</i>(35), 189–192. Retrieved from <a href="http://ucom.ru">http://ucom.ru/doc/na.2017.09.01.01.189.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Semedov, S. A., &amp; Kurbatova, A. G. (2020). Russian public diplomacy and nation branding. In A. Velikaya &amp; G. Simons (Eds.), <i>Russia’s public diplomacy: Evolution and practice</i> (pp. 45–59). Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Shelepov, A. V. (2014). Zarubezhnyy opyt primeneniya “myagkoy sily”. Faktory uspekha politiki “myagkoy sily” Velikobritanii<i>. Vestnik mezhdunarodnykh organizatsiy</i>, <i>9</i>(2), 10–25 [Shelepov, A. V. (2014). Foreign experience in the use of soft power. UK success factors for soft power policy. <i>International Organisations Research Journal</i>, <i>9</i>(2), 10–25]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Shestopal, A. V., &amp; Litvak, N. V. (2016). Nauchnaya diplomatiya. Opyt sovremennoy Frantsii. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-Universiteta</i>, <i>5</i>(50), 106–114 [Shestopal, A. V., &amp; Litvak, N. V. (2016). Scientific diplomacy. The experience of modern France. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>5</i>(50), 106–114]. (In Russian)].</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Shikhova, M. S. (2019). Primeneniye publichnoy diplomatii malymi gosudarstvami na primere Norvegii. In <i>Sbornik statey po materialam XXX mezhdunarodnoy nauchno-prakticheskoy konferentsii</i> (S. 30–40). Moskva: Obshchestvo s ogranichennoy otvetstvennost’yu “Mezhdunarodnyy tsentr nauki i obrazovaniya” [Shikhova, M. S. (2019). The use of public diplomacy by small states. Example of Norway. In <i>Materials of the XXX international scientific-practical conference</i> (pp. 30–40). Moscow: International Center for Science and Education]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Shlapeko, Ye A. (2017). Institut obshchestvennoy diplomatii i yego mesto v transgranichnom sotsiokul’turnom prostranstve. <i>Oykumena</i>, <i>1</i>, 152–162. Retrieved <span id="p64" aria-label="64" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>from <a href="https://ojkum.ru">https://ojkum.ru/images/articles/2019-1/_2019_1_17-25.pdf</a> [Shlapeko, E. A. (2017). Institute for public diplomacy and its place in a transboundary sociocultural space. <i>Oikumena</i>, <i>1</i>, 152–162. Retrieved from <a href="https://ojkum.ru">https://ojkum.ru/images/articles/2019-1/_2019_1_17-25.pdf</a>].</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Simons, G. (2014). Russian public diplomacy in the 21st century: Structure, means and message. <i>Public Relations Review</i>, <i>40</i>(3), 440–449. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pubrev.2014.03.002">10.1016/j.pubrev.2014.03.002</a>.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Snow, N. (2010). Public diplomacy: New dimensions and implications. In T. L. McPhail (Ed.), <i>Global communication: Theories, stakeholders and trends</i> (3rd ed., рp. 84–102). Chichester: Wiley-Blackwell.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><i>Soft power: teoriya, resursy, diskurs</i>. (2014). O. F. Rusakova (red.). Yekaterinburg: Izdatel’skiy dom “Diskurs-Pi” [<i>Soft power: Theory, resourses, discource</i>. (2014). O. F. Rusakova (Ed.). Yekaterinburg: Publishing House “Diskurs-Pi”].</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><i>Sovetskaya kul’turnaya diplomatiya v usloviyakh Kholodnoy voyny (1945–1989)</i>. (2018). O. S. Nagornaya (Ed.). Moskva: Politicheskaya Entsiklopediya [<i>Soviet Cultural Diplomacy During the Cold War (1945–1989)</i>. (2018). O. S. Nagornaya (Ed.). Moscow: Political Encyclopedia]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Stetsko, E. (2020). The role of civil society in Russian public diplomacy. Russian public diplomacy and nation branding. In A. Velikaya &amp; G. Simons (Eds.), <i>Russia’s public diplomacy: Evolution and practice</i> (pр. 147–166). Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Sveshnikov, A. A. (2001). Kontseptsii KNR v oblasti vneshney politiki i natsional’noy bezopasnosti. In <i>Kitay v mirovoy politike</i> (S. 93–143). Moskva: ROSSPEN [Sveshnikov, A. A. (2001). PRC concepts in the field of foreign policy and national security. In <i>China in world politics</i> (pp. 93–143). Moscow: ROSSPEN]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Tabarintseva-Romanova, K. M. (2019). “Novyye” vidy diplomatii XXI v.: kul’turnaya diplomatiya v sovremennom mezhdunarodnom diskurse. <i>Nauchnyy zhurnal</i> “<i>Diskurs-Pi</i>”, <i>3</i>(36), 26–37. <a href="https://cyberleninka.ru">https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/novye-vidy-diplomatii-xxi-v-kulturnaya-diplomatiya-v-sovremennom-mezhdunarodnom-diskurse/viewer</a> [Tabarintseva-Romanova, K. M. (2019). “New” types of diplomacy of the XXI century: Cultural diplomacy in modern international discourse. <i>Scientific Journal “Discourse-Pi”</i>, <i>3</i>(36), 26–37. <a href="https://cyberleninka.ru">https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/novye-vidy-diplomatii-xxi-v-kulturnaya-diplomatiya-v-sovremennom-mezhdunarodnom-diskurse/viewer</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Tabarintseva-Romanova, K. M. (2020, maya 8). Borshch, vino i tropicheskiy ray. <i>Rossiyskiy Sovet po mezhdunarodnym delam</i>. Retrieved from <a href="https://russiancouncil.ru">https://russiancouncil.ru/analytics-and-comments/columns/otherside/borshch-vino-i-tropicheskiy-ray/?sphrase_id=36796086</a> [Tabarintseva-Romanova, K. (2020, May 8). Borsch, wine and tropical paradise. <i>Russian Council on Foreign Affairs</i>. Retrieved from <a href="https://russiancouncil.ru">https://russiancouncil.ru/analytics-and-comments/columns/otherside/borshch-vino-i-tropicheskiy-ray/?sphrase_id=36796086</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Tandoc, E. C., Jr., Zheng, W. L., &amp; Ling, R. (2017, September). Defining “fake news”. A typology of scholarly definitions. <i>Digital Journalism</i>, 1–17. Retrieved from <a href="http://www.researchgate.net">www.researchgate.net/publication/319383049_Defining_Fake_News_A_typology_of_scholarly_definitions</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><span id="p65" aria-label="65" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Tkachenko, S. (2020). Development diplomacy of the Russian federation. Russian public diplomacy and nation branding. In A. Velikaya &amp; G. Simons (Eds.), <i>Russia’s public diplomacy: Evolution and practice</i> (pp. 61–77). Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Torkunov, A. V. (2012). Obrazovaniye kak instrument “myagkoy sily” vo vneshney politike Rossii. <i>Vestnik MGIMO – Universitet. Vestnik MGIMO – Universiteta</i>, <i>4</i>(25), 85–93 [Torkunov, A. V. (2012). Education as an instrument of soft power in Russian foreign policy. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>4</i>(25), 85–93]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Torkunov, A. V. (2019). Diplomatiya akademicheskogo soobshchestva: proshloye i nastoyashcheye. <i>Mirovaya ekonomika i mezhdunarodnyye otnosheniya</i>, <i>63</i>(9), 22–28. <a href="https://doi.org/10.20542/0131-2227-2019-63-9-22-28">https://doi.org/10.20542/0131-2227-2019-63-9-22-28</a> [Torkunov, A. (2019). Diplomacy of the academic community: Past and present. <i>World Economy and International Relations</i>, <i>63</i>(9), 22–28. <a href="https://doi.org/10.20542/0131-2227-2019-63-9-22-22-28">https://doi.org/10.20542/0131-2227-2019-63-9-22-22-28</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Tsvetkova, N. A. (2011). Programmy Web 2.0 v publichnoy diplomatii SShA. <i>SShA i Kanada: Ekonomika, politika, kul’tura</i>, <i>3</i>, 109–122 [Tsvetkova, N. (2011). Web 2.0 programs in US public diplomacy. <i>USA and Canada: Economics, Politics, Culture</i>, <i>3</i>, 109–122]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Tsvetkova, N. A. (2012). Publichnaya diplomatiya SShA v Rossii: ot “demokratizatsii” k razvitiyu “sotsial’nogo aktivizma”. <i>SShA i Kanada: ekonomika, politika, kul’tura</i>, <i>10</i>(514), 37–46 [Tsvetkova, N. A. (2012). US public diplomacy in Russia: From “democratization” to the development of “social activism”. <i>USA and Canada: Economics, Politics, Culture</i>, <i>10</i>(514), 37–46]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Tsvetkova, N. A. (2015). Publichnaya diplomatiya SSHA ot “myagkoy sily” k dialogovoy propagande. <i>Mezhdunarodnyye protsessy</i>, <i>13</i>(3), 121–133. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.17994/IT.2015.13.2.42.8">10.17994/IT.2015.13.2.42.8</a>. Retrieved from <a href="http://intertrends.ru">http://intertrends.ru/system/Doc/ArticlePdf/1248/A7xHW3zLY9.pdf</a> [Tsvetkova, N. (2015). Public diplomacy of the USA from soft power to dialogue propaganda. <i>International Processes</i>, <i>13</i>(3), 121–133. doi:<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.17994/IT.2015.13.2.4.4.8">10.17994/IT.2015.13.2.4.4.8</a>. Retrieved from <a href="http://intertrends.ru">http://intertrends.ru/system/Doc/ArticlePdf/1248/A7xHW3zLY9.pdf</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Tsvetkova, N. A. (2020). Russian digital diplomacy: A rising cyber soft power? In A. Velikaya &amp; G. Simons (Eds.), <i>Russia’s public diplomacy: Evolution and practice</i> (рр. 103–117). Palgrave Macmillan.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Tsygankov, A. (2006). If not by tanks, then by banks? The role of soft power in Putin’s foreign policy. <i>Europe-Asia Studies</i>, <i>58</i>(7), 1079–1099.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Vapler, V. Ya, Gronskaya, N. E., Gusev, A. S., Korshunov, D. S., Makarychev, A. S., &amp; Solntsev, A. V. (2010). Ideya imperii i “myagkaya sila”: mirovoy opyt i rossiyskiye perspektivy. <i>Voprosy upravleniya</i>, <i>1</i>(10), 22–27. Retrieved from <a href="http://vestnik.uapa.ru">http://vestnik.uapa.ru/ru/issue/2010/01/02/</a> [Vapler, V. Ya, Gronskaya, N. E., Gusev, A. S., Korshunov, D. S., Makarychev, A. S., &amp; Solntsev, A. V. (2010). The idea of empire and soft power: World experience and Russian prospects. <i>Management Issues</i>, <i>1</i>(10), 22–27. Retrieved from <a href="http://vestnik.uapa.ru">http://vestnik.uapa.ru/ru/issue/2010/01/02/</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Velikaya, A. A. (2019). Publichnaya diplomatiya Rossii i SShA: sravnitel’nyye aspekty dvukh sistem i rol’ v razvitii dvustoronnego dialoga. <i>Vestnik Sankt-Peterburgskogo universiteta. Mezhdunarodnyye otnosheniya</i>, <i>12</i>(4), 500–517. <a href="https://doi.org/10.21638/11701/spbu06.2019.407">https://doi.org/10.21638/11701/spbu06.2019.407</a> [Great, A. A. (2019). Public <span id="p66" aria-label="66" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>diplomacy of Russia and the United States: Comparative aspects of the two systems and the role in the development of bilateral dialogue. <i>Bulletin of St. Petersburg University. International Relations</i>, <i>12</i>(4), 500–517. <a href="https://doi.org/10.21638/11701/spbu06.2019.407">https://doi.org/10.21638/11701/spbu06.2019.407</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Walker, С., &amp; Ludwig, J. (2017, November 16). The meaning of sharp power – how authoritarian states project influence. <i>Foreign Affairs</i>, Retrieved from <a href="http://www.foreignaffairs.com">www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/china/2017-11-16/meaning-sharp-power?cid=int-fls&pgtype=hpg/</a></p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Yevdokimov, Ye V. (2011). “Narodnaya diplomatiya” KNR. Massovost’ kak fenomen kitayskoy vneshnepoliticheskoy propagandy. <i>Vestnik MGIMO-universiteta</i>, <i>3</i>, 285–289 [Evdokimov, E. V. (2011). “People’s diplomacy” of the PRC. Mass as a phenomenon of Chinese foreign policy propaganda. <i>MGIMO Review of International Relations</i>, <i>3</i>, 285–289]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Zaharna, R. S. (2004). From propaganda to public diplomacy in the information age. In R. K. Yahya &amp; S. Nancy (Eds.), <i>War, media, and propaganda: A global perspective</i> (pp. 219–226). Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Zaharna, R. S. (2007). The soft power differential: Network communication and mass communication in public diplomacy. <i>Hague Journal of Public Diplomacy</i>, <i>2</i>, 213–228.</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Zegonov, O. V. (2008). Gosudarstva i SMI v kontekste miropoliticheskogo vzaimodeystviya. <i>Kosmopolis</i>, <i>1</i>(20), 51–65 [Zegonov, O. V. (2008). States and mass media in the context of world political interaction. <i>Cosmopolis</i>, <i>1</i>(20), 51–65]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Zevelev, I. A., &amp; Troitskiy, M. A. (2006). Sila i vliyaniye v amerikano-rossiyskikh otnosheniyakh: semioticheskiy analiz<i>. Ocherki tekushchey politiki. Vypusk 2</i>. Moskva: Nauchno-obrazovatel’nyy forum po mezhdunarodnym otnosheniyam [Zevelev, I. A., &amp; Troitsky, M. A. (2006). Strength and influence in US-Russian relations: A semiotic analysis. In <i>Essays on current politics. Issue 2</i>. Moscow: Scientific and Educational Forum on International Relations]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Zinov’yeva, Ye S. (2016). Tsifrovaya diplomatiya, mezhdunarodnaya bezopasnost’ i vozmozhnosti dlya Rossii. <i>Indeks bezopasnosti</i>, <i>1</i>(104), 213–228 [Zinov’yeva, E. (2016). Digital diplomacy, international security and opportunities for Russia. <i>Safety Index</i>, <i>1</i>(104), 213–228]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Zinov’yeva, Ye S. (2017). Tsifrovaya publichnaya diplomatiya kak instrument uregulirovaniya konfliktov. In M. M. Lebedeva (red.), <i>Publichnaya diplomatiya: Teoriya i praktika</i> (S. 54–69). Moskva: Aspekt Press [Zinov’yeva, E. S. (2017). Digital public diplomacy as a tool for conflict resolution. In M. M. Lebedeva (Ed.), <i>Public diplomacy: Theory and practice</i> (pp. 54–69). Moscow: Aspect Press]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Zonova, T. V. (2004). Diplomatiya kak instrument kul’tury mira i tolerantnosti. In <i>Kul’tura tolerantnosti: opyt diplomatii dlya resheniya sovremennykh upravlencheskikh problem</i> (S. 215–241). Moskva: MGIMO [Zonova, T. (2004). Diplomacy as an instrument of the culture of peace and tolerance. In <i>A culture of tolerance: The experience of diplomacy for solving modern management problems</i> (pp. 215–241). Moscow: MGIMO]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry"><span id="p67" aria-label="67" epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Zonova, T. V. (2012). Publichnaya diplomatiya i yeyo aktory. <i>Rossiyskiy sovet po mezhdunarodnym delam</i>. Retrieved from <a href="http://russiancouncil.ru">http://russiancouncil.ru/analytics-and-comments/analytics/publichnaya-diplomatiya-i-ee-aktory/</a> [Zonova, T. (2012). Public diplomacy and its actors. <i>Russian Council on Foreign Affairs</i>. Retrieved from <a href="http://russiancouncil.ru">http://russiancouncil.ru/analytics-and-comments/analytics/publichnaya-diplomatiya-i-ee-aktory/</a>]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Zonova, T. V. (2017). Publichnaya diplomatiya Yevropeyskogo soyuza. In M. M. Lebedeva (red.), <i>Publichnaya diplomatiya: Teoriya i praktika</i> (S. 70–88). Moskva: Aspekt Press [Zonova, T. V. (2017). Public diplomacy of the European Union. In M. M. Lebedeva (Ed.), <i>Public diplomacy: Theory and practice</i> (pp. 70–88). Moscow: Aspect Press]. (In Russian).</p>
<p class="references" epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">Zubkova, A. (2015). Myagkaya sila Turtsii: Fenomen “Soap Power” kak instrumenta kul’turnoy diplomatii. <i>Vestnik RUDN. Seriya Politologiya</i>, <i>2</i>, 52–62 [Zubkova, A. (2015). The soft power of Turkey: The phenomenon of “soap power” as an instrument of cultural diplomacy. <i>Bulletin of the RUDN University</i>. <i>Series Political Science</i>, <i>2</i>, 52–62]. (In Russian).</p>
</div>
</section>
</article>
</body>
</html>